plot : two teen couples go to a church party , drink and then drive . 
they get into an accident . 
one of the guys dies , but his girlfriend continues to see him in her life , and has nightmares . 
what's the deal ? 
watch the movie and " sorta " find out . . . 
critique : a mind-fuck movie for the teen generation that touches on a very cool idea , but presents it in a very bad package . 
which is what makes this review an even harder one to write , since i generally applaud films which attempt to break the mold , mess with your head and such ( lost highway & memento ) , but there are good and bad ways of making all types of films , and these folks just didn't snag this one correctly . 
they seem to have taken this pretty neat concept , but executed it terribly . 
so what are the problems with the movie ? 
well , its main problem is that it's simply too jumbled . 
it starts off " normal " but then downshifts into this " fantasy " world in which you , as an audience member , have no idea what's going on . 
there are dreams , there are characters coming back from the dead , there are others who look like the dead , there are strange apparitions , there are disappearances , there are a looooot of chase scenes , there are tons of weird things that happen , and most of it is simply not explained . 
now i personally don't mind trying to unravel a film every now and then , but when all it does is give me the same clue over and over again , i get kind of fed up after a while , which is this film's biggest problem . 
it's obviously got this big secret to hide , but it seems to want to hide it completely until its final five minutes . 
and do they make things entertaining , thrilling or even engaging , in the meantime ? 
not really . 
the sad part is that the arrow and i both dig on flicks like this , so we actually figured most of it out by the half-way point , so all of the strangeness after that did start to make a little bit of sense , but it still didn't the make the film all that more entertaining . 
i guess the bottom line with movies like this is that you should always make sure that the audience is " into it " even before they are given the secret password to enter your world of understanding . 
i mean , showing melissa sagemiller running away from visions for about 20 minutes throughout the movie is just plain lazy ! ! 
okay , we get it . . . there 
are people chasing her and we don't know who they are . 
do we really need to see it over and over again ? 
how about giving us different scenes offering further insight into all of the strangeness going down in the movie ? 
apparently , the studio took this film away from its director and chopped it up themselves , and it shows . 
there might've been a pretty decent teen mind-fuck movie in here somewhere , but i guess " the suits " decided that turning it into a music video with little edge , would make more sense . 
the actors are pretty good for the most part , although wes bentley just seemed to be playing the exact same character that he did in american beauty , only in a new neighborhood . 
but my biggest kudos go out to sagemiller , who holds her own throughout the entire film , and actually has you feeling her character's unraveling . 
overall , the film doesn't stick because it doesn't entertain , it's confusing , it rarely excites and it feels pretty redundant for most of its runtime , despite a pretty cool ending and explanation to all of the craziness that came before it . 
oh , and by the way , this is not a horror or teen slasher flick . . . it's 
just packaged to look that way because someone is apparently assuming that the genre is still hot with the kids . 
it also wrapped production two years ago and has been sitting on the shelves ever since . 
whatever . . . skip 
it ! 
where's joblo coming from ? 
a nightmare of elm street 3 ( 7/10 ) - blair witch 2 ( 7/10 ) - the crow ( 9/10 ) - the crow : salvation ( 4/10 ) - lost highway ( 10/10 ) - memento ( 10/10 ) - the others ( 9/10 ) - stir of echoes ( 8/10 ) 
the happy bastard's quick movie review 
damn that y2k bug . 
it's got a head start in this movie starring jamie lee curtis and another baldwin brother ( william this time ) in a story regarding a crew of a tugboat that comes across a deserted russian tech ship that has a strangeness to it when they kick the power back on . 
little do they know the power within . . . 
going for the gore and bringing on a few action sequences here and there , virus still feels very empty , like a movie going for all flash and no substance . 
we don't know why the crew was really out in the middle of nowhere , we don't know the origin of what took over the ship ( just that a big pink flashy thing hit the mir ) , and , of course , we don't know why donald sutherland is stumbling around drunkenly throughout . 
here , it's just " hey , let's chase these people around with some robots " . 
the acting is below average , even from the likes of curtis . 
you're more likely to get a kick out of her work in halloween h20 . 
sutherland is wasted and baldwin , well , he's acting like a baldwin , of course . 
the real star here are stan winston's robot design , some schnazzy cgi , and the occasional good gore shot , like picking into someone's brain . 
so , if robots and body parts really turn you on , here's your movie . 
otherwise , it's pretty much a sunken ship of a movie . 
it is movies like these that make a jaded movie viewer thankful for the invention of the timex indiglo watch . 
based on the late 1960's television show by the same name , the mod squad tells the tale of three reformed criminals under the employ of the police to go undercover . 
however , things go wrong as evidence gets stolen and they are immediately under suspicion . 
of course , the ads make it seem like so much more . 
quick cuts , cool music , claire dane's nice hair and cute outfits , car chases , stuff blowing up , and the like . 
sounds like a cool movie , does it not ? 
after the first fifteen minutes , it quickly becomes apparent that it is not . 
the mod squad is certainly a slick looking production , complete with nice hair and costumes , but that simply isn't enough . 
the film is best described as a cross between an hour-long cop show and a music video , both stretched out into the span of an hour and a half . 
and with it comes every single clich ? . 
it doesn't really matter that the film is based on a television show , as most of the plot elements have been recycled from everything we've already seen . 
the characters and acting is nothing spectacular , sometimes even bordering on wooden . 
claire danes and omar epps deliver their lines as if they are bored , which really transfers onto the audience . 
the only one to escape relatively unscathed is giovanni ribisi , who plays the resident crazy man , ultimately being the only thing worth watching . 
unfortunately , even he's not enough to save this convoluted mess , as all the characters don't do much apart from occupying screen time . 
with the young cast , cool clothes , nice hair , and hip soundtrack , it appears that the film is geared towards the teenage mindset . 
despite an american 'r' rating ( which the content does not justify ) , the film is way too juvenile for the older mindset . 
information on the characters is literally spoon-fed to the audience ( would it be that hard to show us instead of telling us ? ) , dialogue is poorly written , and the plot is extremely predictable . 
the way the film progresses , you likely won't even care if the heroes are in any jeopardy , because you'll know they aren't . 
basing the show on a 1960's television show that nobody remembers is of questionable wisdom , especially when one considers the target audience and the fact that the number of memorable films based on television shows can be counted on one hand ( even one that's missing a finger or two ) . 
the number of times that i checked my watch ( six ) is a clear indication that this film is not one of them . 
it is clear that the film is nothing more than an attempt to cash in on the teenage spending dollar , judging from the rash of really awful teen-flicks that we've been seeing as of late . 
avoid this film at all costs . 
 " quest for camelot " is warner bros . ' first feature-length , fully-animated attempt to steal clout from disney's cartoon empire , but the mouse has no reason to be worried . 
the only other recent challenger to their throne was last fall's promising , if flawed , 20th century fox production " anastasia , " but disney's " hercules , " with its lively cast and colorful palate , had her beat hands-down when it came time to crown 1997's best piece of animation . 
this year , it's no contest , as " quest for camelot " is pretty much dead on arrival . 
even the magic kingdom at its most mediocre -- that'd be " pocahontas " for those of you keeping score -- isn't nearly as dull as this . 
the story revolves around the adventures of free-spirited kayley ( voiced by jessalyn gilsig ) , the early-teen daughter of a belated knight from king arthur's round table . 
kayley's only dream is to follow in her father's footsteps , and she gets her chance when evil warlord ruber ( gary oldman ) , an ex-round table member-gone-bad , steals arthur's magical sword excalibur and accidentally loses it in a dangerous , booby-trapped forest . 
with the help of hunky , blind timberland-dweller garrett ( carey elwes ) and a two-headed dragon ( eric idle and don rickles ) that's always arguing with itself , kayley just might be able to break the medieval sexist mold and prove her worth as a fighter on arthur's side . 
 " quest for camelot " is missing pure showmanship , an essential element if it's ever expected to climb to the high ranks of disney . 
there's nothing here that differentiates " quest " from something you'd see on any given saturday morning cartoon -- subpar animation , instantly forgettable songs , poorly-integrated computerized footage . 
 ( compare kayley and garrett's run-in with the angry ogre to herc's battle with the hydra . 
i rest my case . ) 
even the characters stink -- none of them are remotely interesting , so much that the film becomes a race to see which one can out-bland the others . 
in the end , it's a tie -- they all win . 
that dragon's comedy shtick is awfully cloying , but at least it shows signs of a pulse . 
at least fans of the early-'90s tgif television line-up will be thrilled to find jaleel " urkel " white and bronson " balki " pinchot sharing the same footage . 
a few scenes are nicely realized ( though i'm at a loss to recall enough to be specific ) , and the actors providing the voice talent are enthusiastic ( though most are paired up with singers who don't sound a thing like them for their big musical moments -- jane seymour and celine dion ? ? ? ) . 
but one must strain through too much of this mess to find the good . 
aside from the fact that children will probably be as bored watching this as adults , " quest for camelot " 's most grievous error is its complete lack of personality . 
and personality , we learn from this mess , goes a very long way . 
synopsis : a mentally unstable man undergoing psychotherapy saves a boy from a potentially fatal accident and then falls in love with the boy's mother , a fledgling restauranteur . 
unsuccessfully attempting to gain the woman's favor , he takes pictures of her and kills a number of people in his way . 
comments : stalked is yet another in a seemingly endless string of spurned-psychos-getting-their-revenge type movies which are a stable category in the 1990s film industry , both theatrical and direct-to-video . 
their proliferation may be due in part to the fact that they're typically inexpensive to produce ( no special effects , no big name stars ) and serve as vehicles to flash nudity ( allowing them to frequent late-night cable television ) . 
stalked wavers slightly from the norm in one respect : the psycho never actually has an affair ; on the contrary , he's rejected rather quickly ( the psycho typically is an ex-lover , ex-wife , or ex-husband ) . 
other than that , stalked is just another redundant entry doomed to collect dust on video shelves and viewed after midnight on cable . 
stalked does not provide much suspense , though that is what it sets out to do . 
interspersed throughout the opening credits , for instance , a serious-sounding narrator spouts statistics about stalkers and ponders what may cause a man to stalk ( it's implicitly implied that all stalkers are men ) while pictures of a boy are shown on the screen . 
after these credits , a snapshot of actor jay underwood appears . 
the narrator states that " this is the story of daryl gleason " and tells the audience that he is the stalker . 
of course , really , this is the story of restauranteur brooke daniels . 
if the movie was meant to be about daryl , then it should have been called stalker not stalked . 
okay . so we know who the stalker is even before the movie starts ; no guesswork required . 
stalked proceeds , then , as it begins : obvious , obvious , obvious . 
the opening sequence , contrived quite a bit , brings daryl and brooke ( the victim ) together . 
daryl obsesses over brooke , follows her around , and tries to woo her . 
ultimately rejected by her , his plans become more and more desperate and elaborate . 
these plans include the all-time , psycho-in-love , cliche : the murdered pet . 
for some reason , this genre's films require a dead pet to be found by the victim stalked . 
stalked is no exception ( it's a cat this time -- found in the shower ) . 
events like these lead to the inevitable showdown between stalker and stalked , where only one survives ( guess who it invariably always is and you'll guess the conclusion to this turkey ) . 
stalked's cast is uniformly adequate : not anything to write home about but also not all that bad either . 
jay underwood , as the stalker , turns toward melodrama a bit too much . 
he overdoes it , in other words , but he still manages to be creepy enough to pass as the type of stalker the story demands . 
maryam d'abo , about the only actor close to being a star here ( she played the bond chick in the living daylights ) , is equally adequate as the " stalked " of the title , even though she seems too ditzy at times to be a strong , independent business-owner . 
brooke ( d'abo ) needs to be ditzy , however , for the plot to proceed . 
toward the end , for example , brooke has her suspicions about daryl . 
to ensure he won't use it as another excuse to see her , brooke decides to return a toolbox he had left at her place to his house . 
does she just leave the toolbox at the door when no one answers ? 
of course not . 
she tries the door , opens it , and wanders around the house . 
when daryl returns , he enters the house , of course , so our heroine is in danger . 
somehow , even though her car is parked at the front of the house , right by the front door , daryl is oblivious to her presence inside . 
the whole episode places an incredible strain on the audience's suspension of disbelief and questions the validity of either character's intelligence . 
stalked receives two stars because , even though it is highly derivative and somewhat boring , it is not so bad that it cannot be watched . 
rated r mostly for several murder scenes and brief nudity in a strip bar , it is not as offensive as many other thrillers in this genre are . 
if you're in the mood for a good suspense film , though , stake out something else . 
capsule : in 2176 on the planet mars police taking into custody an accused murderer face the title menace . 
there is a lot of fighting and not a whole lot of story otherwise . 
john carpenter reprises so many ideas from his previous films , especially assault on precinct 13 , that the new film comes off as his homage to himself . 
 , 0 ( -4 to +4 ) . 
john carpenter apparently believes that action scenes in which people fight something horrible are the same as horror scenes . 
for a writer and director of horror films , supposedly an expert on horror , it is a very bad mistake to make . 
ghosts of mars is called a horror movie , but it is more just a drawn out fight between humans and a surprisingly low-powered alien menace . 
in addition if anybody but john carpenter had made ghosts of mars , carpenter would have grounds to sue . 
this film is just chock full of pieces taken from assault on precinct 13 , the thing , and prince of darkness . 
it is , in fact , surprising that carpenter managed to fit so many pieces of his previous work into this film in such an admittedly novel way . 
but that still does not make for a really good science fiction experience . 
ghosts of mars takes place in the year 2176 . 
mars has been mostly terraformed so that humans can walk on the surface without breathing gear ( which is good for the film's budget ) . 
it is never mentioned , but the gravity on mars has been increased somehow to earth-normal , again making it easier to film . 
society has changed a bit by that time , but it has advanced surprisingly little . 
apparently the culture has changed so that women are much more in positions of control . 
and from carpenter's view , women have really made a mess of things . 
society has stagnated under female control so that beyond some minor technological advances society has changed less in 175 years than we might expect it to change in ten . 
the basic plot of ghosts of mars has much in common with that of assault on precinct 13 except that precinct 9 ( yes , precinct 9 ) has been replaced by a somewhat tacky looking rundown martian mining colony . 
instead of having the criminal " napolean " wilson , this film has the criminal " desolation " williams . 
instead of facing hoodlums with automatic weapons the police face , well , ghosts of mars . 
because the ghosts are somewhat alien in nature they should behave in some alien manner , but they essentially behave as human savages , in another lapse of imagination . 
the story is told in flashback , flashback within flashback , and flashback within flashback within flashback . 
ghosts of mars takes place entirely at night and is filmed almost entirely in tones of red , yellow , and black . 
carpenter manages to give us a powerful opening scene , showing a mining train rushing through the martian night to the sound of music with a heavy beat . 
sadly what follows is not really up to the buildup . 
the terror he creates looks a little too much like fugitive wannabes from the rock band kiss . 
his idea of building suspense is having a bunch of sudden jump scenes that sucker the viewer into thinking something scary is happening and then prove to be just something boring . 
these are standard haunted house film shock effects that require no great talent to give the audience . 
somewhat newer but also unimpressive are the cgi digital decapitations in some of the fights . 
within a short stretch of time we have seen the release of mission to mars , red planet , and ghosts of mars . 
after mission to mars was panned by too many reviewers it looks better and better and better as time goes by . 
i rate ghosts of mars a 4 on the 0 to 10 scale and a 0 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
following the movie i showed my wife , who liked ghosts of mars moderately more than i did , carpenter's classic assault on precinct 13 . 
her comment is that it was seeing the same film twice . 
so ask yourself what " 8mm " ( " eight millimeter " ) is really all about . 
is it about a wholesome surveillance man who loses sight of his values after becoming enmeshed in the seedy , sleazy underworld of hardcore pornography ? 
is it about the business itself , how , bubbling just beneath the surface of big-town americana , there's a sordid world of sick and depraved people who won't necessarily stop short of murder in order to satisfy their sick and twisted desires ? 
or is it about those who can , those who are in a position to influence the making of the kinds of films sick and demented people want to see ? 
i'm not talking about snuff films , supposed " documentaries " of victims being brutalized and killed on camera . 
i'm talking about films like " 8mm " and its director , joel schumacher . 
with a recent run of big budget movies to his credit-- " batman & robin , " " a time to kill , " " batman forever , " " the client " --schumacher certainly has that kind of influence . 
is " 8mm " something you really want to see ? 
probably not . 
the first two-thirds of " 8mm " unwind as a fairly conventional missing persons drama , albeit with a particularly unsavory core . 
then , as it's been threatening all along , the film explodes into violence . 
and just when you think it's finally over , schumacher tags on a ridiculous self-righteous finale that drags the whole unpleasant experience down even further . 
trust me . 
there are better ways to waste two hours of your life . 
nicolas ' " snake eyes " ' cage plays private investigator tom welles who is hired by a wealthy philadelphia widow to determine whether a reel of film found in her late husband's safe documents a young girl's murder . 
welles goes about his assignment rather matter-of-factly , and the pieces of the puzzle fall into place rather neatly , almost as if you don't need any specialized skills or training to do this . 
welles certainly makes it look easy . 
and cops , obviously , never look in toilet tanks for clues . 
the deeper welles digs into his investigation the more obsessed he becomes , like george c . scott in paul schrader's " hardcore . " 
occasionally , a little flickering sound whirs in his head like sprockets winding through a film projector , reminding him of his unpleasant task . 
there are hints that this is taking its toll on his lovely wife , played by catherine keener , who is frustrated by her husband spending all of his time in cleveland rather than in their ugly split-level home in harrisburg , pa . 
 " 8mm " doesn't condemn or condone its subject matter , it just exploits it . 
the irony , of course , is that schumacher and " seven " scribe andrew kevin walker's vision of life in the snuff lane is limited by what they can show in an r-rated , first-run hollywood product . 
so we only see snippets of snuff , and a lot more footage of nicolas cage covering his face in horror . 
later it's the turn of joaquin phoenix ( who's quite good and by far the film's most interesting character as adult bookstore flunky max california ) to cover his face as the horrid thing is screened over and over again . 
all this to get to the familiar yet offensive " revelation " that sexual deviants are not , indeed , monsters but everyday people like you and me . 
neither super nor standard , " 8mm " is shocking only in its banality . 
that's exactly how long the movie felt to me . 
there weren't even nine laughs in nine months . 
it's a terrible mess of a movie starring a terrible mess of a man , mr . hugh grant , a huge dork . 
it's not the whole oral-sex/prostitution thing ( referring to grant , not me ) that bugs me , it's the fact that grant is annoying . 
not just adam sandler-annoying , we're talking jim carrey-annoying . 
since when do eye flutters and nervous smiles pass for acting ? 
but , on the other hand , since when do really bad slapstick ( a fistfight in the delivery room culminating in grant's head in joan cusack's lap--a scene he paid $60 to have included in the movie ) and obscene double entendres ( robin williams , the obstetrician , tells grant's pregnant girlfriend she has " a big pussy , " referring of course to the size of the cat hairs on her coat , but nonetheless , grant paid $60 to have the exchange included in the movie ) pass for comedy ? 
nine months is a predictable cookie-cutter movie with no originality in humor or plot . 
hugh grant plays a successful child psychiatrist . 
why a child psychologist ? 
so the scriptwriters could inject the following unfunny exchange : 
kid : my dad's an asshole . 
grant ( flutters eyelashes , offers a nervous smile , then responds in his annoying english accent and i-think-i-actually-have- talent attitude ) : could you possibly elaborate on that ? 
kid : my dad's a _huge_ asshole . 
more like a hugh asshole , but that's beside the point , which is : nine months includes too many needlessly stupid jokes that get laughs from the ten year olds in the audience while everyone else shakes his or her head in disbelief . 
so , anyway , grant finds out his girlfriend is pregnant and does his usual reaction ( fluttered eyelashes , nervous smiles ) . 
this paves the way for every possible pregnancy/child birth gag in the book , especially since grant's equally annoying friend's wife is also pregnant . 
the annoying friend is played by tom arnold , who provides most of the cacophonous slapstick , none of which is funny , such as a scene where arnold beats up a costumed " arnie the dinosaur " ( you draw your own parallels on that one ) in a toy store . 
the only interesting character in the movie is played by jeff goldblum , who should have hid himself away somewhere after the dreadful hideaway , as an artist with a fear of ( and simultaneous longing for ) commitment . 
not even robin williams , who plays a russian doctor who has recently decided to switch from veterinary medicine to obstetrics , has much humor . 
his is a one-joke character-- the old foreign-guy-who-mispronounces-english stereotype ( did someone say yakov smirnov ? 
that's my favorite vodka , by the way ) , hence the line " now it's time to take a look at your volvo , " another nasty but unamusing joke , except this one goes right over the ten year olds' heads , while the adults simultaneously groan . 
nine months is a complete failure , low on laughs and intelligence and high on loud , unfunny slapstick , failed jokes and other uninspired lunacy . 
hugh grant's sunset boulevard arrest ( please , no caught-with-his-pants-down jokes ) may bring more people into the theaters , but they certainly won't leave with a smile on their faces , not after 90 minutes of grant's nervous smiles . 
everything in the movie is so forced , so unauthentic that anyone with an i . q . 
over 80 ( sorry , hugh ) will know they wasted their money on an unfulfilled desire . 
but at least they didn't spend 60 bucks for it . 
call it a road trip for the walking wounded . 
stellan skarsg ? rd plays such a convincingly zombified drunken loser that it's difficult to spend nearly two hours of screen time in his smelly , boozed-out presence . 
yet this ever-reliable swedish actor adds depth and significance to the otherwise plodding and forgettable aberdeen , a sentimental and painfully mundane european drama . 
playwright august strindberg built his career on families and relationships paralyzed by secrets , unable to express their longings until the hour is far too late . 
that's an accurate reflection of what aberdeen strives for , focusing on the pairing of an alcoholic father , tomas ( skarsg ? rd ) and his alienated , openly hostile yuppie daughter , kaisa ( lena headey , gossip ) . 
they haven't spoken in years , and wouldn't even be making the long trip from norway to aberdeen , scotland by automobile if it weren't for kaisa's mother ( charlotte rampling , under the sand ) rotting away in a hospital bed from cancer . 
in a soap opera twist , mother has only a few days to live . 
 ( only in the movies , right ? ) 
too blitzed to even step foot on a plane , tomas hits the open road with kaisa . 
loathing each other all the while , they make periodic stops for tomas to puke on the dashboard or pass out -- whenever he isn't muttering what a rotten kid she turned out to be . 
despite his sloshed viewpoint , tomas recognizes that the apple hasn't fallen very far from the tree . 
kaisa gets nosebleeds from snorting coke , sabotages her personal relationships through indifference , and is unable to restrain her quick and vindictive temper . 
ain't they a pair ? 
unable to find true notes of unspoken familial empathy in the one-note and repetitively bitchy dialogue , screenwriters kristin amundsen and hans petter moland fabricate a series of contrivances to propel events forward -- lost money , roving street hooligans looking for drunks to kick around , nosy cops , and flat tires all figure into the schematic and convenient narrative . 
by the time they reach the hospital , it's time to unveil the secrets from a dark past that are not only simplistic devices that trivialize the father-daughter conflict , they're also the mainstays of many a bad strindberg wannabe . 
this revelation exists purely for its own sake . 
aberdeen doesn't know where else to go . 
weak , unimaginative casting thwarts the pivotal role of kaisa . 
if lena headey were a stronger actress , perhaps aberdeen could have been able to coast on the performances and moody , haunting cinematography ( rendering norway into its own pastoral ghost world -- the reference to a certain superior american indie flick intentional ) . 
headey's too busy acting , using her face and furrowed brow to convey every last twitch of insouciance . 
if she were paying any attention to skarsg ? rd , maybe she'd figure out that doing less can reveal so much more . 
it's worthwhile to compare aberdeen to an earlier film released in 2001 , jonathan nossiter's captivating signs & wonders . 
it's not just because skarsg ? rd and rampling played disturbed parental figures in both films ( they're not bound by ceremonial wedlock in aberdeen ) . 
the differences in the way their characters were presented is significant . 
in aberdeen , rampling is a luminous diva , preening and static in her hospital bed . 
despite skarsg ? rd's solid performance as tomas , his pathetic drunk is never given much of a chance to emote anything besides catatonic sorrow . 
there's genuine ferocity and sexually charged frisson during their understated confrontations in signs & wonders , allowing them to suggest a gray zone of complications that accompany torn romance and years of stifled curiosity . 
nossiter's film thoroughly explores this neurotic territory in addition to delving into the americanization of greece and the use of mysticism as an illusion to deflect pain . 
if signs & wonders sometimes feels overloaded with ideas , at least it's willing to stretch beyond what we've come to expect from traditional drama . 
aberdeen is never half so ambitious , content to sleepwalk through the rhythms and timing of other movies . 
when did character driven stories stop paying attention to the complexities of real life ? 
the depressing answer can be found in lawrence kasdan's trite but occasionally useful grand canyon , where steve martin's hollywood mogul pronounces , " all of life's riddles are answered in the movies ! " 
even foreign films are taking that advice to heart . 
plot : a young french boy sees his parents killed before his eyes by tim roth , oops . . . i 
mean , an evil man . 
he vows revenge on that man and is taught the ways of the musketeer by some old dude who used to be one himself ? 
anyway , fourteen years go by and . . . arrgh , well , you know the rest . . . swish-swish-zzzzzzz ! 
critique : this is a pretty bad movie . 
let's see , where should i start ? 
okay , first of all , the story is just plain boring . 
it's not original , is entirely predictable and lacks energy . 
okay , what's next ? 
acting , you say . 
hmmmm , well , the main actor , justin chambers , is basically an uncharismatic version of chris o'donnell but with less range ( think about that ! ) , and mena suvari , is just plain off . 
not as bad as thora birch was in dungeons & dragons , but entirely miscast , with bad deliveries , awful sequences and a piss-poor accent that comes and goes . 
now i'm not sure if this was ms . suvari's fault or the director's , but i've definitely seen her at a much higher level than in this film . 
the only semi-saving grace actor-wise is tim roth as the irrepressible " bad guy " , but once again , it's not something that we haven't seen before . . . a 
thousand times . . . by the same guy ! ! 
tim , please . . . for the love of god , beg your agent to ask the marketplace for some modern day " american roles " for you as a " nice guy " in a romantic comedy or something . 
stretch , dude . . . stretch ! ! 
we all know that you can do much better than this gunk . 
alright , what else was bad in this film ? 
oh yeah , the score ! 
yikes , how's about taking it down a few notches there , fellas ? 
this thing blares in your ear whenever it feels the need to accentuate a certain scene , but actually does little more than annoy . 
i think it's important for the man behind the music to recognize that this film isn't a " real epic " by any stretch of the imagination . 
it's a fluffy rehashed cake-walk created by some " shrewd " studio heads who decided to take advantage of the whole " kung-fu " phenomenon in films , and test it out on an old classic . 
dudes . . . you 
failed all around ! 
 ( keep reading ) 
the editing is also pretty shoddy in this movie , the dialogue banal and stilted and the plot problems . . . plentiful ! 
 ( why does the guy on top of the horse carriage just stand there when his opponent takes forever scampering his way back to the top ? 
why don't they just cut the mouseketeer's rope at the top of the tower , instead of jumping down on their own chords and fighting him while hanging ? 
why doesn't anybody look a day older , when the sequence says " 14 years later " ? 
 ( at least . . . change 
your shirt , man ! ) 
keep in mind that i have never strayed away from championing certain movies that are created simply for the sake of a " fun time " , but this flick just didn't cut it for me . 
it was boring for stretches , the acting was atrocious at times ( the " romantic " scene between suvari and chambers next to the lake reminded me of plays in high school which made you cringe ) , there was little reason to care for anyone and since when were the musketeers fat ? 
i will give the movie this much , and that is that its main reason for being ( its " raison-d'etre " , as the french would say ) , its fight sequences , do come through despite the lack of their numbers in the film . 
i was hoping that the movie would be packed with cool stuntwork as promoted in its trailer , but what you see there , are essentially the snippets from the two major ( and cool ) swashbuckling sequences from the film . 
the first comes right at the beginning of the movie , while the other essentially finishes the film off , hanging from the tower and juggling off ladders . 
the ladder sequence itself is a definite keeper but unfortunately the rest of the movie is just regurgitated crap . 
and can anyone please tell me how catherine deneuve got her name placed at the top of this film's credits ? 
hullo ? 
the film is called the musketeer and stars a dude name justin chambers . 
deneuve is barely in this movie ! 
ugh , just another small thing that annoyed me about this trash . 
now say it together , gang : " all for one , and one for all . . . we 
vow to stay away from it all ! ! " 
thank me later . 
where's joblo coming from ? 
a knight's tale ( 7/10 ) - american outlaws ( 5/10 ) - crouching tiger , hidden dragon ( 7/10 ) - the matrix ( 8/10 ) - the replacement killers ( 6/10 ) - romeo must die ( 3/10 ) - shanghai noon ( 6/10 ) 
best remembered for his understated performance as dr . hannibal lecter in michael mann's forensics thriller , manhunter , scottish character actor brian cox brings something special to every movie he works on . 
usually playing a bit role in some studio schlock ( he dies halfway through the long kiss goodnight ) , he's only occasionally given something meaty and substantial to do . 
if you want to see some brilliant acting , check out his work as a dogged police inspector opposite frances mcdormand in ken loach's hidden agenda . 
cox plays the role of big john harrigan in the disturbing new indie flick l . i . e . , which lot 47 picked up at sundance when other distributors were scared to budge . 
big john feels the love that dares not speak its name , but he expresses it through seeking out adolescents and bringing them back to his pad . 
what bothered some audience members was the presentation of big john in an oddly empathetic light . 
he's an even-tempered , funny , robust old man who actually listens to the kids' problems ( as opposed to their parents and friends , both caught up in the high-wire act of their own confused lives . ) 
he'll have sex-for-pay with them only after an elaborate courtship , charming them with temptations from the grown-up world . 
l . i . e . stands for long island expressway , which slices through the strip malls and middle-class homes of suburbia . 
filmmaker michael cuesta uses it as a ( pretty transparent ) metaphor of dangerous escape for his 15-year old protagonist , howie ( paul franklin dano ) . 
in his opening voice-over , howie reveals a morbid preoccupation with death on the road , citing the l . i . e . 
highway deaths of filmmaker alan j . pakula , songwriter harry chapin , and his own mother on exit 52 . 
he's both fascinated and disturbed by the l . i . e . , and those feelings are projected onto big john ( who follows howie around in his bright red car , but never makes a move to force the boy to do something he doesn't want to do . 
this makes him much more complex than the usual child molesters seen in movies -- he's a beast , but ashamed of it . ) 
l . i . e . would have worked best as a half-hour short film about howie's ill-advised foray into big john's haven . 
there is unnecessary padding with howie's miserable dad ( bruce altman ) in the hot seat for a white-collar crime , degenerate youngsters who get their kicks from robbing middle-class houses , and some homoerotic shenanigans with wise-ass gary terrio ( billy kay ) , a handsome artful dodger . 
rather than add to the themes of suburban ennui ( not that we needed another movie on that subject ) , these awkward subplots pad out the running time to adequate feature length . 
concurrently , the relationship between howie and big john is evenly paced and exceptionally well acted . 
cox , sporting a baseball cap and a faded marine tattoo , is all bluff and bluster . 
dano is quiet and at first glance seems so withdrawn as to be transparent . 
we're so used to child actors whose dramatic choices are broad and obvious ( calling haley joel ! ) , it's surprising to see one who actually listens throughout any given scene . 
the restraint is admirable . 
but l . i . e . 's screenplay doesn't always give them the best material . 
when howie reads big john a walt whitman poem , the moment feels a bit too precious . 
director michael cuesta lingers on an ecstatic reaction shot of big john , who may as well be hearing glenn gould performing bach's goldberg variations . 
it's too much . 
there are also some obvious dramatic contrivances involving big john's other boy toy ( walter masterson ) , jealous over the newbie . 
this plot thread predictably leads to violence . 
not content to be a haunting , observational portrait of teen alienation in a royally screwed up world ( like terry zwigoff's superb ghost world ) , cuesta lacks the confidence in his own work to end on an ambivalent note . 
it's typical of unimaginative cinema to wrap things up with a bullet , sparing the writers from actually having to come up with a complex , philosophical note . 
in this regard , l . i . e . 
 ( and countless other indie films ) share something in common with blockbuster action films : problems are solved when the obstacle is removed . 
how often does real life work this way ? 
to extend the question : if a movie is striving for realism , do dramatic contrivances destroy the illusion ? 
janeane garofalo in a romantic comedy -- it was a good idea a couple years ago with the truth about cats and dogs but is almost excruciating in the matchmaker . 
this is a by-the-books movie that plods along on a predestined course with no surprises and very few laughs . 
it also jumps on the ever-popular political satire bandwagon and manages to fall flat there , too . 
garofalo plays a campaign aide to a massacusetts senator ( jay o . sanders ) running for reelection . 
denis leary plays the stereotypical strategist with no ethics who decides the only way for the scandal- plagued senator to win is to play up his irish roots and cash in on that boston roman catholic democrat contingent that's made the kennedy family so popular . 
so leary orders garofalo to go to ireland and dig up some relatives to exploit . 
she soon learns why " easier said than done " is the mantra of movies like this . 
the matchmaker falls for every cliche of things that can go wrong -- garofalo has to take a tiny plane to ireland , almost misses the bus to town , can't get a hotel room , ends up in the smallest , trashiest one around , has a dog piss on her luggage , and so on . 
then comes what roger ebert calls the " meet cute . " 
it happens in every romance : the man and woman have to meet each other for the first time in some unconventional , cinematic way . 
in the matchmaker , it happens when garofalo walks into her hotel bathroom and finds a nude sean ( david o'hara ) in the bathtub , his dog sitting at his side . 
no points for guessing it's the same dog that just made water on her luggage . 
also no points for guessing garofalo hates o'hara on sight . 
that's how it works in movies like these . 
i know from the instant i saw that irishman in the bathtub that she'd hate him for awhile , then succumb to his charms , live happily for a reel or so before allowing some superficial detail to throw the relationship into turmoil , after which they'd reconcile in time for a happy irish tune to play over the end credits . 
i haven't mentioned the movie's twist yet . 
garofalo comes to the small ireland town during the annual matchmaking festival , during which lonely folks from around the county pair off into a future of bliss . 
milo o'shea ( who looks like an irish tom snyder ) is the matchmaker who pops onscreen occasionally to spew his words of wisdom and bring lonely souls together . 
rest assured he'll do all he can to match up garofalo and o'hara . 
oh , and in keeping with the matchmaker's utter predictability , he dies toward the end . 
what the message here ? 
sometimes even the most respectable person of comedic distinction , like garofalo , will sell out with a weak script . 
i was excited to see garofalo and leary in the same movie , but they actually only have two or three scenes together . 
leary stays stateside , for the most part , yelling at garofalo over the phone and generally being an asshole . 
he even undoes himself with the old microphone's still on after he's done giving the speech cliche . 
both of them should have known better . 
and now the high-flying hong kong style of filmmaking has made its way down to the classics , and it isn't pretty . 
this time out the nod to asia goes by way of france in the excruciating bland and lukewarm production of the musketeer , a version of dumas's the three musketeers . 
by bringing in popular asian actor/stunt coordinator xing xing xiong -- whose only prior american attempts at stunt choreography have been the laughable van damme vehicle double team and the dennis rodman cinematic joke simon sez -- our musketeers are thrown into the air to do their fighting . 
the end result is a tepid and dull action/adventure rip-off that stinks of indiana jones and bad asian kung fu . 
the story is so simple my grandmother could have adapted the screenplay . 
d'artagnan ( justin chambers ) is the vengeful son of a slain musketeer . 
he travels to paris to join the royal musketeers and find the man that killed his parents . 
in paris , he meets the cunning cardinal richelieu ( stephen rea ) , who is trying to overthrow the king , and richelieu's man-in-black associate febre ( tim roth ) , the killer of his folks . 
he finds the musketeers in paris disbanded and drunk , so he rounds up aramis ( nick moran ) , athos ( jan gregor kremp ) and porthos ( steven spiers ) to free the musketeer's wrongfully imprisoned leader treville from the king's prison . 
d'artagnan and his new frisky love interest/chambermaid francesca ( mena suvari ) play footsy and coo at each other as the cardinal hunts down the musketeers until finally the queen ( catherine deneuve ) ends up being captured by the menancing febre , forcing the musketeers to regroup , with d'artagnan leading the charge , and save the day . 
director peter hyams ( end of days ) obviously wanted to blend eastern and western filmmaking styles , but here it's a disaster . 
one problem is that , in reality , most eastern films have taken their lead from western ones . 
jet li's high risk is a rip-off of die hard -- not the other way around . 
ironically , there is awfully little swordplay or action in the film at all -- maybe ten minutes of swashbuckling spread over five scenes . 
most asian action films carry the bulk of their production with 20- to 30-minute action sequences , because they know the scenes have to carry the picture . 
the musketeer instead weighs itself down with a predictable and monotonous screenplay by gene quintano ( sudden death ) , horrible acting by stephen rea and tim roth , and the prosaic attempt of justin chambers ( the wedding planner ) to deliver his mousy self as a leader . 
chambers' d'artangnan isn't a musketeer -- he's a mouseketeer ! 
and hyam's use of candles and torches to light the grime and filth of 17th century paris are well-noted , but that's the only standout in an overall flat production . 
a movie like mortal kombat : annihilation works ( and must be reviewed on ) multiple levels . 
first , there's the rampant usage of randian subtext that pervades the entire movie . 
but occasionaly , almost as if making an ironic , self-depreciating remark , the movie tosses in clearly marxist imagery . 
no no . . . 
just kidding . 
had you going there for a moment , didn't i ? 
in all seriousness however , and to be fair to the movie , it * is * necessary to provide two viewpoints : that of a movie watcher unfamiliar ( or only marginally familiar ) with the whole mortal kombat phenomenon , and that of a fan of the first movie and/or a fan of the games . 
the first movie ( mortal kombat ( 1995 ) ) concerned itself with a martial arts tournament that would decide the fate of earth ( and it's 5 billion inhabitants ) . 
the mortals won , and in theory this should have prevented the emperor shao khan from taking over the earth . 
unfortunately , shao khan was a poor loser , and the very final scene in mortal kombat showed him arriving anyway , ready to take over the planet , as our heroes assumed a fighting stance . 
the first movie was extraordinarily entertaining for those ( like myself ) who are fans of the game . 
i'd even go so far as to say that many folks who didn't know about the game probably enjoyed the movie . 
the writers and directors knew the limitations of both their cast and of the basic story itself , and they didn't try to overachieve . 
there were a lot of really cool fight scenes ( with really cool accompanying music ) , intersperesed with some distracting ( but ultimately non-intrusive ) bits of fluff passing itself off as a plot . 
and , as we know , the movie was a smashing success at the box office . 
mortal kombat : annihilation picks up precisely where that movie left off , with some introductory exposition to clue in those who may not have seen the first movie . 
shao khan has decided that he's going to take over the earth * anyways * , and to hell with some silly rule about mortals winning the tournament . 
thereafter follows approximately 85 minutes of film that alternates between being confused , being trite , being silly , and being just plain stupid . 
one gets the general impression that the producers of the movie thought " hey , that last movie was such a success that we can get more money and make a * real * movie now . " 
too bad they didn't simply stick with the formula from the first movie . 
i could write volumes about the things that are wrong with this picture , but here are the high points : 
 * the acting is truly bad . 
sandra hess ( playing the sonya blade character ) is particularly execrable , especially in scenes where she tries to convince us that she loved johnny cage ( a character from the first movie who gets greased at the beginning of this movie ) . 
 * in one of the worst pieces of mis-casting i think i've * ever * seen , james remar plays raiden , the god of thunder . 
in the first movie , christopher lambert played raiden and played his character as though he was in on the joke : a french actor playing a japanese thunder god being revered by chinese mystics . 
i generally like it when actors are cast against type ( tim " tiny " lister , jr . being cast as the president of the u . s . in the fifth element , for example ) , and remar has always been one of my favorite " utility " actors but he's so totally wrong for this part that he doesn't even have the luxury of amused self-awareness . 
 * there are too many characters that are introduced as being potentially important , but then never seen again . 
 * there are a number of completely meaningless story sidetracks , including a muddled scene where liu kang ( robin shou ) seeks out nightwolf ( litefoot ) , has a mystical hallucination , and then wanders off with jade ( irina pantaeva ) . 
for these reasons ( and many others ) , i can only give the movie a 2 . . . 
 . . . unless you're a huge fan of the games and/or the first movie . 
in that case , the following critiques also apply : 
 * sandra hess , while being an even worse actress than bridgette wilson ( who played sonya blade in the first movie ) , is much more convincing as a fighter . 
wilson looked like she was simply mimicing some movements taught to her by the fight choreographer . 
hess looks like she actually knows some martial arts , and puts together a much more believable fight scene . 
 * in the fights , each of the characters does at least * one * thing they do in the game ( and often more ) . 
sonya does her " kiss of death , " jax does his " earthquake , " liu kang does his " animality , " and so on . 
a big bonus for those of us who were looking for similar moves in the first movie and found them only rarely . 
 * there aren't as many fight scenes in this movie as there were in the first , because the folks making the movie mistakenly try to hang a more robust plot in between . 
silly , silly folks . 
and the lamest fight involved two of the women in what turns into a mud-wrestling match . 
lame and so obviously sexist even i ( politically incorrect , for the most part ) noticed and remarked upon it . 
 * the special effects are generally better , except for the final fight scene between the emporer and liu kang in which both perform their " animalities . " 
motaro and sheeva are both more convincing and lifelike than goro was in the first movie . 
for folks like myself who loved the first movie and enjoy the games , i give this a 5 . 
you'll probably like it , but not nearly as much as you liked the first one . 
she was the femme in " la femme nikita . " 
he was the baldwin in " backdraft , " " sliver , " and " fair game " ( with cindy crawford ) . 
together , anne parillaud and william baldwin conspire to make " shattered image " the biggest piece of hooey since the stallone/stone " thriller " " the specialist . " 
the film poses the question " what if the life you're living now is really a dream , and your dreams reality ? " 
it's either about a woman who's haunted by a recurring ( and recurring and recurring ) nightmare that she's a hired assassin , or it's about a hired assassin who's haunted by a recurring ( and recurring and recurring ) nightmare that she's honeymooning with william baldwin in jamaica . 
it doesn't much matter and believe me by the time " shattered image " runs its painful and pedestrian course you won't care . 
these two lives , with parillaud looking like siouxsie sioux with a black wig , black emotionless eyes , and black leather clothing in the seattle-based assassin scenes , and moping around like karen carpenter in the jamaica scenes , play out endlessly throughout the film and the result is it's now * twice * as boring as it might have been . 
it's not that complicated plots can't be entertaining . 
of course it helps if you have interesting characters , crisp dialogue , and a modicum of style . 
 " shattered image " isn't complex , it's just stupid . 
and boring . 
parillaud and baldwin , who aren't exactly shakespearean material to begin with , are saddled with such leaden dialogue that their characters have zero chance of breaking free of their cardboard confines . 
lines like : 
 " you don't beg , you insist . 
i like that in a woman . " 
that's parillaud's character talking . . . 
to her cat ! 
and : 
 " you're not the reason i couldn't care less about you . " 
huh ? 
and this wonderful bathroom interchange early in the film : 
 " if you give me a couple of minutes you know i'll charm the pants off you . " 
 " i don't have that kind of time . " 
talking of pants , parillaud has her clothes off faster than you can say " point of no return . " 
we have come to expect this from billy baldwin , but it might have been nice to have learned something about their characters first . 
but there's nothing to learn . 
karen is as interesting as a cereal box , a someone's-out-to-get-me crybaby who imagines the voice at the other end of the phone , the stranger who sends her flowers , maybe even her husband himself , is her would-be killer . 
siouxsie is the chromium cool , tough-as-nails crack killing machine who shoots out a couple of mirrors in order to justify the film's meaningless stock title . 
baldwin seems more interested in parillaud's nest egg ( so that he can pave paradise and put up a parking lot ) than he does in her . 
each time graham greene shows up he gets killed . 
barbet schroeder ( " reversal of fortune " ) co-produced and should be ashamed of himself . 
every now and again it's fun to watch a really bad movie . 
and every now and again , as " shattered image " makes agonizingly clear , it isn't . 
john carpenter makes b-movies . 
always has ( " halloween , " " escape from new york , " " the thing " ) and , by the looks of it ( " they live , " " escape from l . a . , " " vampires " ) , always will . 
carpenter's latest horror opus with a science fiction bent ( or science fiction outing with a schlock horror bent ) is the aptly-titled " john carpenter's ghosts of mars " ( in case , i suppose , you went looking for someone else's " ghosts of mars " ) . 
like all those films prefixed by the very possessive " john carpenter's , " " ghosts of mars " is an unashamed b-movie punctuated by a b-movie plot , b-movie actors , and b-movie special effects . 
in category one , above , we have a storyline that borders on idiotic ( and , at times , chaotic ) . 
dormant martians ( i . e . , swirling red gases ) awakened by meddling humans possess the souls of hapless mining colonists rendering them testy marilyn manson lookalikes . 
all this explained ( in flashback ) to some grand pooh-bah counsel by martian police official melanie ballard ( natasha henstridge , from the sub- " species " films ) , the only returnee on a silly-looking train . 
officer ballard went in to bring back incarcerated felon james " desolation " williams ; what she found was not a pretty picture . 
in the second category we have ms . henstridge , her blonde hair pulled back tightly and awkwardly into a ponytail , ice cube ( as the appropriately-named " desolation " ) , pam grier ( briefly , oddly--who wanted to work with whom i wonder ? ) , and a host of extras all assuming that the story and special effects were going to carry this film and therefore they didn't need to try too hard . 
in category number three we have , in addition to those swirling red gases and the silly-looking train , a couple of bird's-eye-view shots of a sprawling martian metropolis ( reddish also ) . 
state-of-the-art special effects have never been a carpenter trademark and once again the writer/director ( who seems to have no problem finding work , however ) doesn't waste any of the film's budget in that department . 
 " ghosts of mars " is lock , laughing stock , and barrel all your standard carpenter fare : dingy interiors , cluttered exteriors , inane dialogue , lots of leather , scarred , crazed-looking aliens , and lots and lots of weaponry . 
the film often and always explodes into warfare without warning--spontaneously , stupidly . 
carpenter might like to think he's made a western here but it's a western without any real heroes , villains , or border conflicts . 
it's just the shootouts minus a hissing snake plissken . 
i never thought i'd miss the guy but i do . 
it's not * all * the same , however . 
dubbed the " one-note wonder " for his minimalist music soundtracks , carpenter seems to have graduated from simplistic ( yet effective ) scoring by highlighting his action with loud , screeching guitar work . 
fortunately this drowns out a lot of the dialogue . 
the final exchange between henstridge and , er , cube though is both audible * and * priceless . 
mars has proven an infertile breeding ground for hollywood in the last year or so , what with the stillborn " mission to mars " and " red planet " ( with val kilmer ) . 
 " ghosts of mars " sadly adds to those disappointing returns ( in its opening weekend it was overshadowed by a bunch of sequels , among them " american pie 2 " and " rush hour 2 " ) . 
the irony is that the mars in carpenter's film feels sadly absent . 
there are occasional references to the red planet , of course , but the film might as well have been set in perth amboys than on earth's closest neighbor . 
two things keep " john carpenter's ghosts of mars " from getting a huge slap upside the head . 
1 . 
henstridge keeps her top on ( miraculously ) , and 2 . the film doesn't pretend to be anything it's not . 
what that means , however , is that fans of superior , intelligent , grade a sci-fi/horror are singularly out of luck . 
i'm really starting to wonder about alicia silverstone . 
sure , she is one of the most beautiful creatures on god's green earth ( second only to that movie critic at large guy ) , but when it comes to choosing what movies she stars in , she always strikes out . 
the crush was a slow-moving , predictable piece of fluff . 
hideaway was a horrific novel adaptation alicia had only a minor role in . 
clueless was an annoying , unfunny waste of time . 
and people have e-mailed me too , saying clueless is a good movie and that i'm the only one who doesn't like it . 
one girl said if i'd seen the movie with " an open mind , " i would have enjoyed it . 
nothing could be further from the truth . 
i went into the theater expecting to love the movie . 
the preview looked good and of course i'm crazymadinlove with alicia , but the movie was a bunch of bad jokes coming from whiny , unlikable characters . 
almost everyone i saw the movie with felt the same way . 
when we were walking out of the theater , one guy ( and it wasn't me ) yelled out , " that was the worst f$&#in' movie i've ever seen " and the rest of us had to laugh in agreement . 
so last night i walked into the video store and saw alicia's pretty face on the cover of some made-for-video thriller called the babysitter . 
i knew it would be bad but some inner compulsion i'll probably never understand made me rent it anyway . 
what i got was 90 minutes of regret--the worst alicia silverstone movie ever . 
and you already know from the last paragraph what the competition is like . 
where to begin in criticizing this movie ? 
the plot is a thin shred that moves slower than a glacier , the writing could have been done ( and for all we know it was ) by a ten year old , alicia is the star and she's still wasted in a movie that has no appeal whatsoever . 
there is zero humor , zero suspense , zero drama and zero action , until the last ten minutes , when the story is needlessly and pointlessly concluded with a violent sequence . 
zero plus zero plus zero plus zero equals zero . 
so why does this movie get one star out of me ? 
well , alicia spends twenty minutes of the movie in the bathtub . 
and if it wasn't bubble bath , the babysitter would have instantly joined the ranks of our other four- star features , but you settle for what you can get . 
alicia plays a babysitter who's spending friday night looking after two kids whose parents are out getting drunk at a cocktail party . 
and of course anyone as beautiful as alicia automatically spends their friday nights at home ( at least that movie critic at large guy does ) . 
as the movie trods along , we discover she's not only the mostly-silent star of the movie but also the object of every male character's fantasies ( and probably every male viewer's too ) . 
the drunken father thinks she's just the thing to recapture his lost youth , her boyfriend lets his imagination run wild while spying on alicia from outside , even the prepubescent boy looks in on alicia through the bathroom keyhole while she's taking her bubble bath . 
they even throw in the middle aged wife's fantasies about a male counterpart at the party . 
not that any of us asked or ever even thought about seeing this 200+ pound woman in a black silk teddy . 
at least none of the sex fanatasies ever leave the realm of the pg-rated . 
in fact , i could imagine the babysitter becoming a cinemax late-night staple if not for the fact that there's absolutely no nudity in it . 
so you can't call it a sex flick . 
i've already pointed out that it can't fall under drama , comedy , thriller or action , so what do you classify the babysitter as ? 
bad . 
so what do you get when you mix together plot elements from various successful sci-fi films such as close encounters of the third kind , 2001 : a space odyssey , apollo 13 and contact ? 
well , whatever it is , you'd sure as hell hope that it would be a thousand times better than this shoddy attempt at such a melange , considering the disastrous results we're left with here . 
this is a film that takes a little bit of everything , but ultimately adds up to a lot of nothing ! 
it's like i said . . . this 
movie sucks . 
plot : a rescue crew of astronauts is sent down to mars in the year 2020 , after an unknown energy force leads to a loss of contact with the previous gang of space aviators to visit the red planet . 
critique : extremely underwhelming is the best way to describe this movie . 
uneven , would be another . 
the trailer for this movie actually showed some promise , the buzz around it had been so-so , and even the film itself starts off with a decent first twenty minutes , all leading you to believe that it's actually going to go " somewhere " . 
but it isn't long before the entire movie downshifts into neutral , features more space walks than anything interesting on the cherry-colored planet , tries too hard to get us into the " pain " of some its characters and unsuccessfully tosses some romance into the mix . 
in a sci-fi movie ? 
well , i don't know , much of it just seemed like a bunch of nerdies talking techie jargon for about an hour and a half , only to figure out some big secret in the end , a secret which practically had me yawning with excitement . 
ultimately , this is a movie that starts off with a decent premise , joins the crew in their " misadventures in space " for the main crux of its journey , and eventually settles down for one of the most anti-climactic endings this side of contact . 
mind you , if you enjoyed that film's shrug-of-the-shoulders ending , you might just enjoy this frivolous ditty as well . 
of course , i don't remember contact having such obvious and painfully distracting computer generated effects at its end of story . 
ugh . 
what a friggin' mess . 
films like this generally get me wondering about the brass in hollywood again . 
didn't anybody recognize the crappiness in this script ? 
didn't they read the bad dialogue , the cheezy lines , the obvious derivative nature of the work ( mind you , with a director like depalma at the helm , that ain't saying much ! ) . 
of course , you can't really blame the brass for the inclusion of jerry o'connell in this fine crew of thespians . 
'nuff said . 
neither can you blame them for depalma cranking up the juice on the film's musical score during the last fifteen minutes , presumably in order to wake the audience up ( okay , we get it brian , this scene is supposed to be powerful . . . wow . . . yawn . . . my 
ears hurt ! ) . 
so is anything salvageable in this movie ? 
sure . 
gary sinise does another great job , as does cheadle , the film doesn't completely bore you as much as it just moves along slowly without anything really interesting happening , and yes , the " sand-twister " effect that you see in the commercial is well done . 
other than that ? 
i guess i could say that i admire how filmmakers have become so much more devious in their product placement strategies . . . oops , 
did i say " admire " , i meant " am disgusted " ! 
all in all , this movie delivers very little in actual substance , offers two-bit dialogue masked in a lot of sci-fi mumbo-jumbo , pretends to be deep when really it's just sappy , and eventually just settles into an ending which , other than presenting us with a pathetic computer graphic as a part of the story , gives us little more to think about than how we might be able to get our money back for sitting through this rehashed dreck . 
go see the ninth gate . . . now 
there's a great movie ! 
and on a personal note , i think it's time for depalma to stop worrying so much about his proverbial 12-minute uninterrupted film sequences , and start worrying more about how crappy his movies are getting . 
the law of crowd pleasing romantic movies states that the two leads must end up together by film's end . 
if you're not familiar with this law , then maybe you've seen the trailer for this film which shows that the two leads are together by film's end . 
now if you're a regular reader of mine , you've heard me say this countless times : you know how drive me crazy is going to end , but is the journey to get to that ending worth it ? 
no , it definitely is not . 
melissa joan hart ( from abc's " sabrina , the teenage witch " ) likes a hunky stud on the basketball team . 
adrien grenier is her grungy neighbor who's just broken up with his activist girlfriend . 
apparently he wants to make his ex-girlfriend jealous enough to take him back , and she wants someone to take her to the big year end dance . 
so the two pretend to date for some reason , but only after hart gives grenier a bath to turn him into a hunky stud . 
will grenier like his new popularity and turn on his friends ? 
will this crazy scheme work ? 
do i care ? 
the teen comedy resurgence of late has been surprisingly good in terms of comedy . 
what makes movies like can't hardly wait and 10 things i hate about you work ( and to a lesser extent , she's all that and never been kissed ) is because the writers of those films seem to realize that high school is a joke and write their scripts accordingly . 
i don't know what the writer's intention was with drive me crazy . 
there was some smart comedy in those films to make the obvious endings worth getting to . 
here there's nothing . . . 
just teens whining about who's going to take them to the big dance . 
do me a favor kids , go get a job or something . . . 
just shut the hell up . 
in all honesty , the best part of this film is the end credits . 
now normally when i say that it's followed with the joke " . . . because the movie is finally over . " 
in this case though the end credits really are the most entertaining part of the film . 
after the obligatory second playing of britney spears' titular song , there's a quick commercial jingle for a burger joint the kids in the film hang out in and a brief rendition of the school song for their high school . 
nothing great , but more entertaining than anything in the 90 minutes which preceded them . 
sci-fi fans take note : there are brief appearances from stephen collins ( star trek : the motion picture ) and faye grant ( the tv miniseries " v " and " v : the final battle " ) . 
[pg-13] 
mighty joe young blunders about for nearly twenty minutes before we actually get to see a great big gorilla . 
his entrance , however , is a grand one : out from the trees he leaps , gargantuan and imposing , sporting hands big enough to crush a volkswagen bug , and a pair of feet much larger than any pro basketball player will ever have . 
joe bellows at the poachers before him , angry that they would like to kill him and sell him for millions of dollars . 
during this scene , i turned to my friend and said , " wow . 
that's some ape . " 
joe is quite a gorilla -- a big , digital gorilla . 
he runs around the fields , chasing cars and people . 
he picks things up and stares at them pensively . 
he breaks things on accident , because he's just too big to avoid clumsiness . 
joe , as a special effect , is an image that might hold your interest for five minutes . 
as a character , he doesn't quite register . 
and the story he's been put in is as limp as they come . 
the words " family entertainment " have never been a stamp of quality , but might joe young is just a silly special effects movie pretending to have a heart . 
the picture is a remake of the 1949 film . 
it's mostly just about the big gorilla , but , strictly as a formality , the movie also has a few human characters . 
the main one is jill young ( poor charlize theron , forced to waste her talent ) , a lover of gorillas . 
as a child , she witnessed a group of poachers murder her mother ; now , she lives in the jungle to protect the wildlife . 
specifically , she's out to protect joe , a giant gorilla who has been her friend since her childhood . 
soon , zoologist gregg o'hara ( bill paxton ) discovers joe ; he quickly realizes that poachers want to get joe and sell him to a big game hunter named strasser ( rade sherbedgia ) , who just happens to be the same guy who killed jill's mother . 
so , in an effort to save joe , jill and gregg take the big gorilla to a preserve , where it is instantly clear that he is not safe from poachers . 
in addition , the space is way too small for him ( after all , he is a really big gorilla ) . 
and , to add to the complications , strasser shows up under a benevolent pretext ( he tells jill that he has a preserve big enough for joe ) , and joe recognizes strasser as the guy who killed jill's mother . 
jill , of course , doesn't recognize strasser , even though he did kill her mother . 
this is just one of the many examples of stupidity in mighty joe young , a film that fulfills every stereotype that comes with a special effects film . 
the movie isn't really offensive -- it has some competent actors , a few nifty sets , and a lot of scenes with a big , digitized gorilla . 
but the story is really dumb , there aren't any characters , and the film isn't satisfying on any level beyond its visuals . 
the movie also has bad dialogue . 
if a critic says that a film has bad dialogue , it's only fair to quote some of it , but most of the words spoken in this picture are phrases like " joe isn't happy ! " 
and " joe isn't safe here ! " 
 " we need to get joe out of here ! " 
 " joe is way too big for that cage ! " 
i don't know if these phrases are word for word , but they're close . 
as i said , the characters here are only present as a formality : they do little more than state the obvious ( of * course * joe is too big for that cage ) . 
paxton and theron are talented performers who deserve to work on a script that provides characters for them . 
sadly , mighty joe young wastes them both . 
there are a few clever moments ( although none of them are surfacing in my memory at the moment ) , and , as i said , the digital effects held my attention for at least five minutes . 
it's certainly not a bad film for kids ; i doubt joe will give them nightmares . 
but adults in the audience aren't likely to find much of anything interesting about the big gorilla . 
a big gorilla is only interesting for a little while ; after that , something needs to be done with the big gorilla . 
nobody ever figures out what to do with the big gorilla . 
 " spawn " features good guys , bad guys , lots of fighting , bloody violence , a leather-clad machine gun chick , gooey , self-healing bullet holes , scatological humor and a man-eating monster . 
it not only appears to have been tailor made for a swarm of 12- and 13-year-old boys , it appears to have been made by them . 
in a classic example of telling and not showing , " spawn " opens with a truckload of mumbo jumbo about forces of darkness , forces of light and how " men are the ones who create evil on earth . " 
so much for a message . 
the movie then lurches forward into the plight of al simmons ( michael jai white ) , a government assassin/operative who is murdered by diabolical boss jason wynn ( martin sheen , who plays all of his scenes like an oscar clip ) while on a top secret mission in a north korean biological weapons plant . 
simmons goes to hell and back , after making a deal with satan himself -- if he agrees to command the devil's army to overtake the world , he'll be allowed to return to earth to see his wife wanda ( underused theresa randle ) and little girl cyan ( sydni beaudoin ) . 
of course , seeing as how five years has passed , wanda has fallen for -- and married -- simmons' partner ( d . b . 
sweeney ) . 
his , uh , shoulder to cry on comes in the form of clown ( john leguizamo ) , a disgustingly disproportioned minion of satan's . 
clown manipulates simmons , now in superhuman spawn form , into a stand off with wynn . 
wynn , who thinks he is in league with the double-dealing clown , recognizes spawn as a threat and undergoes an operation where a bomb is placed on his heart -- when it stops beating , major cities around the world will detonate , causing the leak of a disease that " makes the ebola virus look like a skin rash . " 
phew . got all that ? 
it would be easy to dismiss " spawn " as just another one of those heavy-on-fx , short-on-substance action pics , but it doesn't even work on that level . 
the computer-generated sequences are often and plenty , and the problem is that they look too computer-generated . 
the several scenes set in hell present a devil that looks and acts like a video game graphic -- with the movie's healthy budget you'd think they could have afforded to make his mouth move when he talks . 
other elements of the movie are so-so ; spawn's enormous red , flowing cape is a wonderful sight , but it's too obvious when he's being played by a costumed actor or an image . 
in movies like " contact , " the special effects serve the story . 
in " spawn , " they are the story . 
and spawn himself isn't even an interesting character . 
the film's reliance on razzle-dazzle would be acceptable if we were given somebody to root for , but both simmons and his funky alter-ego are completely underdeveloped . 
what we need is a batman , a luke skywalker . 
even watching the adventures of kleenex man would be more interesting than spawn . 
poor leguizamo . 
he starred in february's " the pest , " a movie that i still think is the year's worst so far , although this one does give it a run for its money . 
as clown , he overacts to the extreme , never missing an opportunity for a poor-taste punchline . 
leguizamo farts green mist , munches a pizza slice covered with maggots and even dons a mini-skirt and performs a cheerleader routine , all before turning into a giant grey demon . 
the guy was brilliant in " to wong foo , thanks for everything ! 
julie newmar . " 
what is he doing wasting his talent in this and " the pest " ? 
i'm one of the few people that liked " batman & robin , " this summer's other big-budget comic book film . 
yet after catching this movie and making the inevitable comparison , i can only hope people will change their minds and think of " batman " as the superior adaptation . 
there's a compelling story somewhere in " spawn " -- including strong religious overtones and the debut of the first african-american superhero ever -- but it's just not found anywhere near here . 
as it is , " spawn " is just awful -- it stinks worse than a dead trout . 
 " in dreams " might keep you awake at night , but not because of its creepy imagery , bizarre visual style or story about a clairvoyant madman who lures young girls to their untimely deaths . 
no , the source of potential sleeplessness here lies within the movie's brutally squandered potential , the least of which is an admittedly nifty premise - even by tired serial killer genre standards . 
the big letdown , however , comes upon the realization that this 100-minute head-scratcher was masterminded by neil jordan , the man behind " the crying game . " 
he's no stranger to cinematic weirdness , but this nutty nonsense really pushes the envelope . 
things start out strong enough , with cinematographer darius khondji's stunning camera work guiding viewers into the bowels of a underwater ghost town during a creepy prologue that establishes a notably grim tone right off the bat . 
this eerie opulence remains a dazzling display of showmanship throughout the entire film - there's even something macabre about the way khondji photographs a rustic , seemingly innocent new england autumn - but if there ever was a film that didn't deserve so good a polish , it's this one . 
don't knock the look , but say what you will about the foolish plot , underdeveloped characters and flat dialogue . 
annette bening , another asset " in dreams " shouldn't be so lucky to boast , gives an increasingly effective performance in a role that doesn't do much for her in return . 
she plays claire cooper , a massachusetts children's book illustrator who's plagued by terrifying nightmares involving kidnaped children . 
she thinks these visions are a warning knell for horrible , soon-to-be-committed crimes , but neither her ho-hum husband ( aidan quinn ) nor the ho-hummer police can muster up the sense to take her seriously . 
this being a thriller , we know that she is , in fact , on the money , and it's a credit to bening's acting that she delves equally into claire's madness and compassion . 
but as soon as a body turns up and claire has given the authorities reason enough to believe her claims , " in dreams " trades in its nifty supernatural chills for a long series of allegedly spooky jolts that simply refuse to make sense . 
scenes pile up like a car wreck with little or no explanation or exposition . 
subplots appear and disappear . 
when claire finally comes face-to-face with our evil murderer ( robert downey jr . ) , it turns out his name is vivian , he's clairvoyant and he's got some major issues with mama , a la norman bates . 
 " in dreams " reaches its absurdist zenith here , and the climax drags with mumbled revelations and laughable twists . 
some questions , then : what's with the garbage disposal retching applesauce ? 
are the drawings on the wall blood or paint ? 
who cranked up the andrews sisters on the cd player and caused the swing to move on its own ? 
what about the computer ? 
does vivian possess the gift of telekinesis in addition to his other powers ? 
why would he continually endanger claire if she was necessary for his ultimate plan ? 
is the woman in australia integral to anything ? 
and the aforementioned flooded city - what function does that _really_ serve ? 
sigh . 
at least in my own dreams , i can imagine a better movie where certain talent didn't go to waste . 
 " knock off " is exactly that : a cheap knock off of an action movie . 
it's also the worst movie i have seen thus far this year . 
i figured it would be at least a couple of months before i saw the worst film of 1998 , but alas , it has already been found . 
jean-claude van damme stars as ( i think ) a designer jeans executive who discovers his half-brother has been supplying him with cheaper goods . 
rob schneider plays van damme's partner , and rochon plays . . . 
actually , i have no idea who rochon was supposed to be . 
she just sort of popped up halfway through without an explanation as to why she was there . 
many things are not explained in this film , but i do know that for some bizarre reason , van damme seemed to be doing a jackie chan impression throughout the flick . 
where chan comes off as endearing in his " normal guy " character seen in many of his films , van damme just comes off as a wimp . 
we're never given any clear explanation as to the basis for many of his actions . 
to be more clear : i did not even know who he was supposed to be until about an hour into the movie , and even then , it was not made too clear . 
the film has been directed in the style of some strange film experiment gone horribly wrong . 
tsui hark ( who directed van damme's last movie , the bad , but not nearly as bad as this , " double team " ) never lets the camera rest for a second , and that's no exaggeration . 
we are even treated to a five second shot from the point of view of van damme's foot entering a shoe . 
fabulous ! 
seriously , though , i have no problem with directors who want to play around with film conventions , as long as they don't get carried away . 
for example , look at sam raimi . 
 " army of darkness " , one of his best movies , features some of the most inventive camera work i have ever seen , but raimi never lets the special effects get in the way of story . 
that's a concept that tsui can't seem to grasp . 
the special effects and outrageous camera angles * rule * " knock off " to the point where the audience doesn't have a clue as to what's happening any more . 
another problem with the film is that it looks cheap . 
the film stock used is of such low caliber that i thought i was watching one of those chinese films shown really late at night . 
and for some inexplicable reason , everyone's voice seems to have been dubbed . 
even the stars . 
and even the special effects , seemingly the only aspect of the film the director actually cared about , are inconsistent . 
for example , there is a scene in which van damme drives a car out of a window . 
the car slams into the ground , and the left wheel is completely destroyed . 
seconds later , the car drives off at full speed . 
hey , i have no problem suspending my disbelief in an action movie , but a line must be drawn somewhere . 
finally , the acting . 
nobody gives a good performance in this film . 
van damme , an actor i usually like , is way off the mark playing " everyman " . 
and schneider , here to provide comic relief i assume , is totally unfunny and over acts his way through every scene . 
even the usually solid paul sorvino gives a terribly over-the-top performance as . . . 
once again , i have no idea who he was supposed to be . 
in case i haven't yet made it clear enough , " knock off " is the worst movie of van damme's career and possibly the worst movie of the decade . 
and it's not even one of those movies that's so bad it's funny . 
it's too inept to be funny . 
there are no redeeming factors in " knock off " and i seriously hope that every print of this film is burned to a crisp and that somehow my memory of watching the film can be erased . 
 " snake eyes " is the most aggravating kind of movie : the kind that shows so much potential then becomes unbelievably disappointing . 
it's not just because this is a brian depalma film , and since he's a great director and one who's films are always greeted with at least some fanfare . 
and it's not even because this was a film starring nicolas cage and since he gives a brauvara performance , this film is hardly worth his talents . 
it's worse than that . 
it's aggravating for the sole reason that its story could be so much more , could be totally intelligent , and it opens up with absolutely no subtlety that it will be handled complexly and intensely . . . then at one point in the movie makes on wrong turn that leads it to the hall of fame of half-assedness . 
or more deservedly , the hall of fame of the eighth-assedness . 
in certain circles , " snake eyes " was being advertised as a kind of modern day version of kurosawa's classic " rashomon , " where a crime is told from the four different ( and i mean different ) perspectives , and it looks as though it may actually be just like this with the opening , which , i might add , is superb . 
in one very very very long steadicam shot , we meet the protagonist , crooked atlantic city detective , rick santoro ( cage ) , and follow him before a boxing match as he talks on his cell phone with his wife , interupts a pay-per-view event on tv , chases down a gambler , enters the arena all pumped up for the fight , sits down and talks with his bud , kevin dunne ( gary sinise , who's character should not be confused with that of actor kevin dunn , who's also in this ) , and watches as it happens . 
there's a big name in the crowd , and that's the secretary of defense , charles kirkland ( joel fabiani ) , who's sitting behind rick , and who gets shot a second after the heavyweight champion , lincoln tyler ( stan shaw ) , is knocked out . 
this all happens in the opening shot , and it creates so many red herrings and possibilities of what happened that it opens this scene up for close examination and total deconstruction . 
what really happened , this film asks , and it sets this film up extremely well for when rick begins to question people and get different perspectives on the scene . . . and 
discovers there's a very good possibility it was a conspiracy . 
as we follow rick trying to learn of more information , we also meet a woman who was talking to kirkland before he was shot ( carla gugino ) , and who flees the scene in a panic , and tries to hide from the cops in the arena and the adjacent casino/hotel since the cops have blocked off the doors so they can get witness' takes on what happened . 
this is all going pretty fine and dandy , and it's extremely interesting to watch . . . then 
it takes one wrong step . 
we follow the wrong character , and we learn of the answer to the mystery too early on , and way before rick can find it out . 
but that's not the worst part of it : it's that it's the one person you didn't think it would be because he was too obviously supposed to be the red herring , the one you didn't think did it because it would be stupid and cliched of that person to be behind it . 
it only gets worse : the film turns into a chase film about half way through the film , and since we already know what happened , we can't rely on rick's investigation to be all that interesting . 
it's as if the film ran out of the guts to be really complex and original about a third of the way in , and decided to just fall back on an easy way out , and that just happens to mean that it has to become less and less credible . 
events become more and more proposterous , and by the end , the film has decided to rely on the worst offender in mysteries like this : the deux ex machina . 
that's where some outside intereference brings the film to a sudden conclusion and makes everything okay . 
this time , it's a hurricane , an out-of-control police car , and a big round ball that adorned the arena . 
what went wrong ? 
depalma and the screenwriter , david koepp , are extremely credible people in their respective fields , and have been known for bringing life and complexity to mysteries such as this . 
depalma , who idolizes hitchcock to death , has done many a film like this , such as his masterpiece , " blow out , " where a movie soundman uses movie elements to uncover a conspiracy piece by piece . 
but granted , depalma at least makes it intriguing to watch , what with his over-the-top shot set-ups , notably the beginning and a sequence where the camera pans over top of a bunch of rooms in the hotel , forgetting anything about boundaries . 
at least his direction makes up partly for it . 
then there's koepp , who showed such great ability at making a character's flaws come to life like he did in depalma's earlier " carlito's way , " a film that dove right into the life and past of its character and examined him extremely well . 
he can write a flawed character , but his rick santoro seems to be just a half-assed effort . 
he's flawed , and we can see redemption if the story wasn't so formulaic . 
a scene towards the end where he has to make a fatal decision is cheapened by the fact that his answer has no emotional buildup . 
he may as well have said the opposite of what he says ; it would have at least gone with what the character was like . 
this is the most disappointing kind of film because it promises intelligence and complexity , because it promises disection of a flawed character and perhaps even redemption , then pulls the rug from under us just as we were about to be convinced it would be able to go all the way . 
as i was watching the first half hour , i couldn't wait to see how the mystery would be unearthed , how many different perspectives he'd be given , and perhaps he'd have to make a choice between who's he has to believe . 
now there's a film . 
unfortunately , the film has two major deux ex machinas : one in the disasterous ending ; the other , about a half hour in when the film goes into autopilot and becomes a stale and recycled piece of crap we've seen all too much before , but never from someone like depalma . 
forgive the fevered criticism but the fervor of the crucible infects . 
set in 1692 at salem , massachusetts , the crucible opens with a group of teenage girls passionately singing and dancing around a boiling cauldron in the middle of a forest under the glow of a full moon . 
they beckon the names of men as the targets of their love spells . 
then one of the girls lets her hair down and sheds her clothes . 
not to be outdone in her quest to regain the attention of john proctor ( daniel day lewis ) , abigail ( winona ryder ) suddenly seizes a chicken , beats it against the ground and smears her face and lips with the fresh blood . 
taking even adolescent hormone surges into account , surely this chicken-bashing bit is a bit excessive , especially for prim puritan sensibilities ? 
surely to the puritan eye this is as close to a coven of witches as it gets ? 
the crucible errs from the beginning and arthur miller's name should be summoned for blame here for the addition of the above scene to his screen adaptation of his play . 
this is far from a harmless event , a bad start to an already shaky morality tale . 
the play describes the film's opening scene during tense exchanges that makes one wonder about the veracity of both accusation and reply , and this adds to the play's charged atmosphere . 
in the film , the opening scene becomes an unintentional pandora's box . 
not only is credulity stretched but abigail's obsession is unfortunately spotlighted . 
it positions the crucible more as a cautionary fable about obsessive and malevolent women than against witch hunts ; it will bring back the memory of a rabbit boiling away in a pot . 
not surprisingly , the nighttime forest frenzy does not go unnoticed and when two girls fail to wake the following morning , witches are invoked by those eager to blame . 
when the girls are questioned , their confession of guilt is accompanied with an announcement of their return to god and they are thereafter converted to immaculate witnesses , led lustfully by abigail . 
with alarming synchronicity our hormonally-advantaged girls zealously gesture and point accusing fingers at innocents , constant reminders that abigail's passion sets all this into inexorable motion . 
abigail seizes on this opportunity to rid herself of her rival for john proctor's love , his wife elizabeth ( joan allen ) , by including her among those accused of witchcraft . 
appropriately narrow-waisted and equipped with a distractingly white smile ( watch his teeth deteriorate much too quickly to a murky yellow ) , day lewis plays the dashing moral hero with an over-earnestness that longs to be watched . 
director nicholas hytner is guilty of encouraging day lewis' foaming-mouth fervour with shots where we stare up at proctor as if he was mounted on a pedestal for our admiration . 
otherwise , hytner's direction is unremarkable . 
ryder's performance as abigail is as consistent as her mood swings . 
her fits of frenzy are energetic enough but the quieter moments are less successful . 
abigail supposedly revels in her newfound power , but ryder fails at being convincingly haughty although there is much haughtiness to spare here . 
paul scofield is fine as the overzealous judge danforth , but the incessant moral posturings of all the characters along with the recurrent histrionics of the young girls pricks at the nerves . 
probably because she is the only refuge of restraint amidst all the huffing and puffing , allen's elizabeth comes out as the most sympathetic character . 
a scene near the end featuring a private conversation between the imprisoned elizabeth and john is undeniably powerful because for once we are given a reprieve from the moral bantering and the human consequences are revealed . 
unfortunately , when john's audience again increases to more than one his urge to pontificate returns and the human urgency of his situation is lost . 
it is clear that miller meant well but i do wish he did it with more delicacy and fewer diversions . 
his screenplay is an imperfect creature with the distractions coming out as loud as the message . 
the result is a clumsy muddle - i felt like the chicken from the opening scene , head ceaselessly banged with piousness too heavy-handed to be wholly believable . 
when the gallows beckoned , it was sweet release indeed . 
far from bewitching , the crucible tests the patience . 
one might expect a cathartic viewing experience walking into a new jean-luc godard film . 
after all , he was a founding member of the highly influential french new wave . 
he is also an esteemed film critic , lending intelligence and historical perspective to us in much of his writing . 
however , his latest creation , in praise of love , is possibly the most exasperating film experience of the year . 
the abstract concept on which the film is based had merit , to dissect love into the following four categories : meeting , physical passion , quarrels , and reconciliation . 
these four universal truths would be revealed through three different couples : young , adult , and elderly . 
it is edgar's ( bruno putzulu ) self-appointed task to capture these moments after a recent breakup , to define a central idea : " it's only when things are over that they make sense . " 
whether this project will end up a play , film , or opera remains undecided . 
the thesis is simple enough that , if played right , it could really hold sympathetic value for anyone . 
instead what ensues is an hour and a half of repetitive vignettes , the next scene no more engaging than the last . 
only once does any character utter something worthwhile , but by the time it happens you're so thoroughly bored you can easily miss it . 
but don't fret , it will surface again . 
you could easily sleep through whole sections of the film ( as some fellow critics did ) and wake up in a scene exactly like the one you nodded off in , not having missed anything worthwhile . 
but you hold hope for some time . 
the background music keeps you in a state of urgency , and even suspense , for the first few conversations . 
it's only after repeated failures to pay any of this off that you lose all hope . 
and with speeches like , " i am thinking of something , but i can only think of that something when i am thinking of something else , " how can you expect to hold anyone's interest ? 
to godard's credit , he certainly knows how to frame a scene . 
the black and white footage used for the first half of the film is starkly beautiful . 
watching edgar read while walking along a train track on a mountain makes you wish you had something to ponder along with him . 
and if this film had anything poignant to say , you would have , which makes you all the angrier at the numerous missed opportunities . 
the environments , be it city or country , are impeccably captured in crisp detail , but the script never complements them . 
unfortunately , godard also manages to pillage his photographic eye by randomly cutting to black numerous times within any given scene . 
sometimes these breaks are used for chapter headings , but these are even more cryptic than the spoken words . 
the second half is composed of nauseating hyper-color that often blurs the image . 
you suddenly feel like a doomed character straight out of scanners . 
the only scene that makes any sense is one that complains about the united states bastardizing history in the making of movies . 
steven spielberg is picked on in particular . 
while i'll grant that this does happen , and i tend to shy away from watching such garbage , it's still a pointless focus for a film that purports to articulate the specific qualities of couplehood . 
it just goes to show , an intelligent person isn't necessarily an admirable storyteller . 
the days of breathless are no more . 
america loves convenience . 
after all , we're the culture that invented the cell phone , the 24-hour atm , and my most beloved , the remote control . 
yet perhaps this time , with ghosts of mars , we have taken our love of convenience to far . 
ghosts of mars stars natasha henstridge as a tough as nails , pill-poppin' , martian cop , sent with her squadron to retrieve " demolition " williams ( ice cube ) from a remote mining town for trial back home . 
when she and her comrades , appropriately dubbed " the commander , " " the rookies , " and the guy with the cool accent discover the town's residents slaughtered , they are forced to team up with williams to escape from the remaining residents' head-chopping , alien-possessed clutches . 
filled with a lovely overuse of storytelling flashbacks , flashes-sideways , and viewpoint changes , ghosts of mars is a hapless mishmash of poorly constructed dialogue and ill-conceived action sequences . 
the only thing keeping this film from becoming an incomprehensible mess is the sheer idiotic simplicity of its story . 
ripped straight from the pages of a 1970s zombie movie , ghosts leaps from one convenient moment to the next , stopping only to kill the characters which are most convenient to lose . 
attempts at character interaction and development are rare and forced . 
most of these moments come off as kwik-e-mart wisdom , dispensed heartily around the slushee machine of life by the even-tempered streetwise hand of ice cube . 
with a gun in one hand and a dynamite cap in the other , cube reminisces about his street life , comparing the zombie-stomping fun to " me and my brother when we was kids . " 
apparently , crime in the bronx has gotten so bad that the residents have actually taken to ritually decapitating one another for entertainment . 
but , even in the film's darkest moments , fate conveniently lends a hand , supplying heavily armored transportation and easily accessible rifles and dynamite . 
yes , in the future , man may travel to space and conquer mars , but nothing beats a good stick of tnt . 
and as we all know , every police station , past , present , or future , keeps a healthy supply on hand . 
characters die , heads are lopped off , but they were only supporting roles anyway , so why should we care ? 
as long as you have plenty of narcotics , immunity is guaranteed . 
eventually though , even the most well-trained zombie alien gets a bit uppity and needs to be taught a lesson . 
what better way than by sacrificing a few minor characters to a convenient nuclear detonation , killing anything the machine guns can't handle . 
explosions are fun . 
and even if the nukes don't get them , the conveniently placed dynamite packs on the train stolen from the set of the road warrior certainly will . 
in the end this film defines itself when our cop's tribunal pronounces , " is that all you have to tell us ? " 
for , indeed , john carpenter has run out of things to say , and has instead decided to use whatever is convenient to tell a ridiculously bad story . 
reindeer games is easily the worst of the three recent films penned by ehren kruger ( scream 3 and arlington rd are the others , each derivative in their own special way ) . 
the guy can't seem to write believable dialogue ( sample from reindeer games : " rule #1 : never put a car thief behind the wheel " ) , create multi-faceted characters , or even engineer coherent plots but he sure knows how to pile on numerous nonsensical twists and turns ( no matter if each one deems the actual story increasingly unlikely ) . 
his screenplay for reindeer games turns the tables on the audience so many times that watching the film becomes something of a punishment with no reward anywhere in sight . 
i can just envision kruger laughing behind his keyboard , " oh you thought my movie was gonna go here , f * ck you jack ass , take that twist , decipher this mother f * cker ! " 
it's almost as if the writer were angry at us for shelling out money to see his stupid movie . 
and why the hell would anyone want to invest time in a movie when the screenwriter keeps changing his own rules for no reason other than to congratulate himself on how damn clever he is ? 
auteur theory be damned ; it's kruger's " style " , not the director's that winds up on screen . 
kruger has obviously never paid much mind to the old chestnut " sometimes less is more " . 
and his numerous twists can't even claim to be originals ; arlington rd's ending is a direct steal from the much better alan j . pakula thriller the parallax view , and in reindeer games we get this ol' gem ; character incriminates themself by saying something they shouldn't know ( pronouns used to protect the gender of the " character " . . . grammar 
be damned ) . 
 " how did you know that ? " 
the stunned protagonist asks , suddenly realizing that the character was in on the whole thing all along . 
 . 
 . 
since twist endings are currently so in vogue , and seeing as how kruger's screenplays usually come equipped with about three twists per ending , i guess it's no wonder why he works so frequently . 
he's quickly becoming miramax's mickey mouse ; the company has already signed him to work on several of their upcoming projects . 
this is appropriate considering that miramax ( which used to place their label on some of the most artistically daring films ) has quickly become a grindhouse for coddling foreign imports ( life is beautiful ) and freddie prinze jr . vehicles . 
their company's current logo could be " we ride the trends " . 
reindeer games stars ben affleck as rudy , a supposedly hardened criminal spending his days and nights behind bars with fantasies of pecan pies dancing atop his head . 
although affleck is given some barbed wire tattoos to insinuate bad assness , he plays the role like steve guttenberg preciously mugging through a police academy flick . 
affleck is such a puppy dog that it's impossible to believe he could survive in a harsh prison environment without becoming nearly everyone's bitch . 
the role itself is so badly written ( the character only grows balls when the plot calls for it ) , the twists so outrageous , and the directing so self consciously gritty that this is about as close to self parody as i can recall a recent " serious " movie getting . 
it may have been wiser had the film makers simply went all the way in that direction , casting jerry seinfeld as the hardened criminal and howard stern as the sniveling bad guy ( who's played here by gary sinise in yet another over the top villain performance ) 
james frain is nick , rudy's cellmate , a manslaughterer who's found a pen pal in the gorgeous ashley mason ( charlize theron ) . 
ashley is a prison groupie who sends nick many cheesecake photos of her though she's never seen one picture of him . 
which works out fine since the character is killed in a near-riot , and rudy ( who was to be paroled on the same day as nick ) takes his place , which leads to a sudden and very frenzied sex scene between ashley and rudy ( so frenzied it kinda looks like rape ) and a surprise visit from ashley's brother , gabriel ( gary sinise ) , who waltzes into their shabby hotel room flanked by his thuggish co-horts . 
he plans to rob an indian casino on christmas eve with the assistance of rudy who he thinks is nick who , according to what he wrote in the letters to ashley , used to work as a guard in the indian casino . 
though by the end , the film pulls the rug out from under us so frequently that everything i've described might as well be irrelevant . 
this is what you can expect should you chose to take this reindeer on ; several scenes in which , after catching his prey , the bad guy proceeds to stall interminably until the good guy has a chance to kill his captor and crack a stupid one-liner . 
included : two ( 2 ) scenes of two ( 2 ) different bad guys explaining their motives to the hero when they should be killing him ( one following the other no less ) . 
though it's an action film , the ending is more a talkfest where we get the whole movie explained to us by one flustered character actor after another while affleck looks on , incredulous as the audience . 
the flick was directed by john frankenheimer , a straightforward action director who lucked into the manchurian candidate early in his career , fell off the a-list following a string of flops and now , in his old age , is slowly climbing his way back up . 
it would be a success story if he were choosing better scripts but his last major film was ronin ( one of those almost but not quite movies ) which followed the island of dr . morneau 
 ( you remember , the one with marlon brando in mime make-up and a not so flattering moo-moo ) , and now this . 
he films action sequences with a minimum of quick cutting which i like considering that nowadays action scenes are commonly comprised of millisecond flash cuts strung together and laid out for a brain-zapped mtv audience to pick apart . 
problem is these action scenes ( nearly all failed escapes ) serve no purpose in the story other than to further pad out the running time and to remind the audience that their watching an action movie rather than a filmed radio play . 
character problems abound ; rudy is made to shift between sweet boy next door earnestness and hard edged wiseacre , the latter of which is not ( at least at this point ) something ben affleck is capable of pulling off . 
the former he can do with ease and often the actor coasts on his lackadaisical charm while those around him growl and swear . 
but then suddenly affleck starts growling and swearing alongside them like the class clown imitating a tarantino gangster . 
charlize theron , an extraordinary talent , is , like affleck , playing whatever part the script requires her to play , whether it be vulnerability at one moment , anger at the next . 
she never has a chance to evince any charm or make much of an impression beyond her obvious physical attributes ( frankenheimer has her needlessly pop her top to further italicize this . 
gary sinise has played this role frequently , and here , as in snake eyes , he does the snarling bad guy thing with such over the top vitriol ( the guy must be so incredibly bored of stomping through the same paces that going out of control is the only thing that keeps him interested any more ) , that it becomes more of an annoyance ( oh there he goes again ? ? ? ) than a threat . 
these are talented people who made the mistake of jumping on to a script with little but stock characters and a bag of tricks that it dully springs on its audience . 
a follow-up to disney's live-action " 101 dalmatians " that's better , more entertaining than the first ? 
just as unlikely . 
with " 102 dalmatians , " the disney studios have proven that when it comes to going to the dogs , more is definitely * not * the merrier . 
1996's " 101 dalmatians " certainly wasn't the greatest movie-going experience of all time , but it did feature glenn close in an outrageous , larger-than-life performance . 
in addition , we had two amiable leads in the form of jeff daniels and joely richardson , and lots and lots of adorable spotted puppies . 
this time around there seem to be fewer puppies on the screen , and close's facial and physical gyrations are starting to feel as old as the 53-year-old actress under that startling black and white wig of hers . 
but that's only half the problem with kevin lima's laborious film . 
what makes " 102 dalmatians " such a collosal bore is its embarrassing attempts at humor ( here almost single-handedly foisted on a wisecracking macaw who thinks he's a dog , voiced by eric idle ) , its rabid plotlessness ( cruella goes after puppies again ; winds up in goo again ) and most of all , the incredibly wooden actors who plays the romantic " heroes " of the piece , a welshman named ioan gruffudd and the blander-than-bland alice evans as a parole officer named chlo ? . 
gruffudd is cute and harmless , perhaps , but evans can't even aspire to that . 
the dogs upstage them both , of course , but in the case of evans , even close's split ends are more animated . 
bad acting , however , seems to be a requirement for this sequel , since g ? rard depardieu shows up as a french furrier with a haircut like robert de niro's in " men of honor . " 
jean pierre le pelt is a flamboyant fashion designer with a penchant for fine furs and depardieu's over-the-top antics mimic those of the campy close flail for flail , and wail for wail . 
france's most popular export besides brie has long since turned into a caricature of himself , and in " 102 dalmatians " the producers milk that realization for all it's worth--le pelt likes to refer to the furry little critters as " poopies , " par example ( and ad nauseum ) . 
the finesses of the script ( attributed to four screenwriters no less , and far removed from anything dodie smith ever dreamed up ) are quickly dispensed with , since all it takes for a paroled cruella to be shaken from her years of successful aversion therapy in the slammer is the tolling of big ben ( ? ) . 
that done , it's back to the mansion to roll around in her heretofore off-limits sables and minks and a plan to skin those little dahlings for the sake of a hooded designer gown . 
the dogs are pretty cute--try making a puppy look otherwise--but that's pretty much all they are . 
there's always the feeling that there's a trainer off in the wings , coaxing the dogs to open doors , or pick up their food bowls in unison , or pop a tape into the videocasette recorder . 
savvy holiday goers should skip " 102 dalmatians " and pop the original 1961 animated classic into * their * vcrs instead . 
it's one dalmatian less , but 101% more satisfying . 
one-sided " doom and gloom " documentary about the possible annihilation of the human race as foretold by the bible . 
orson welles narrates and appears in the film in which he , along with best-selling author hal lindsey , discusses various prophecies from the bible and relates them to recent ( well for 1976 anyway ) events . 
the film is dated badly , as many things that are supposed to happen in the " future " never do . 
for example , the planets of the solar system were supposed to line up in the year 1982 and cause chaos here on earth . 
we're still here . 
the arms race between the soviets and america was supposed to kick-off the apocalypse . 
we're still here . 
some of the more ludicrous moments come when it's alluded to that people like jimmy carter and henry kissinger may actually be the antichrist ( ! ) . 
also , there's ten minutes of stock footage at the end of the film meant to give us an idea of what the battle for armageddon might be like . 
if it's anything like it's depicted as here then it's going to be incredibly boring . 
the late great planet earth is available on dvd from vci home video . 
it contains the film in standard form ( aspect ratio of 1 . 33 : 1 ) , although some moments of stock footage are letterboxed . 
also included are brief bios on orson welles and hal lindsey , as well as a trailer for another recent vci home video release , chariots of the gods . 
audio is mono dolby digital , and the video is fair to good for a film like this . 
i believe this is the first appearance of this film on any home video format so any condition at all is fine with me . 
certainly i never expected a remastered print . 
curiously , the menu screens on this dvd look nothing like the menu screens pictured on the back of the case . 
but they're menu screens . . . 
so who really cares ? 
[pg] 
play it to the bone , the newest addition to ron shelton's sports - themed repertoire fails in numerous ways . 
like most of shelton's other great films ( bull durham , white men can't jump ) , this dud unsuccessfully attempts to use athleticism as a method of connecting characters and creating interesting subplots . 
shelton's films are not considered sports films , but they do heavily revolve around a specific game to tell a story . 
shelton has been so good in the past at using sports to analyze the structure of society that from his collection of films we are given an examination of different classes and races living in various different regions . 
play it to the bone is unsuccessful because not only is the boxing theme dull , but the side story of the two guys and a girl travelling across the country is even worse . 
the film has no social message like its predecessors . 
the relationship between the friends , two failed boxers who must face off against each other in the ring for 50 thousand dollars , is very confusing for a number of reasons . 
the whole film , since it is primarily a " buddy picture , " depends on the strength of the friendship the two characters have for each other . 
unfortunately , it is a very weak bond for the reasons listed below . 
1 ) we never see how cesar ( antonio banderas ) and vince ( woody harrelson ) meet . 
the two are so different from each other , that a scene of how this odd friendship developed should have been mandatory . 
2 ) vince and cesar argue every moment possible on their trip to las vegas . 
there is not one convincing moment dedicated to seeing the characters laugh together or actually agree on something . 
3 ) the third character on the trip , grace ( lolita davidovich ) stands in the way . 
she is in nearly every scene with them , making it impossible to understand the difficulty the two male characters are going to have when they fight each other . 
4 ) there are two many interfering , irrelevant side stories . 
vince is convinced that he sees jesus on a regular basis , cesar yells at the sky in spanish when he is angry , and grace tries to sell her inventions to hotel owner robert wagner . 
these boring tales only hurt the central plot . 
5 ) when it comes to time for the two men to fight , they don't even hesitate to pound each other . 
wasn't the whole point of the road trip to show that these two are friends who could never hurt each other ? 
by the time the road trip part of the movie is over with , the film wants to be over . 
shelton , on the other hand , continues to tell his story . 
forty five painful minutes remain . 
the boxing scene between cesar and vince starts out very powerful and interestingly different from other boxing movies . 
however , the fight goes on for way too long and becomes very repetitive and predictable after awhile , kind of like the whole film . 
some movies i should just skip . 
my daughter and i had a really vile time at my favorite martian a few weeks back , and here comes another disney effects-filled live-action flick based on an old tv program . 
true , the probgram is only 15 years old this time , and it's a cartoon . 
but it's a cartoon i liked , and i was understandably reluctant to see what disney had done to it on the big screen . 
but my daughter really wanted to go , and how bad could it be ? 
turns out i was right , mostly . 
inspector gadget , oddly enough , follows almost exactly the same format as my favorite martian , down to the jive-talking side-kick . 
at first i thought it was done by the same people , but imdb informs me that ig was directed by david kellogg and written by dana olsen and kerry ehrin , where mfm was directed by donald petrie and written by sherri stoner and deanna oliver . 
this odd similarity between the two movies may best be explained by the studio that produced it , where " formula " isn't just business , it's a way of life . 
the producers who obviously micromanaged the two projects should get prominant screen credits . 
in some parts you can just hear them saying " more zany ! 
i want more zany here -- and -- here . " 
 " let's have a really painful sexual reference for no reason right here -- make it really painful . 
i want the audience squirming in their seats . " 
 " ok , that's fine , but i want you to add bug guts . " 
 " what does this scene do ? 
character depth ? 
but where's the zaniness ? 
i don't see zany here . 
if you can't make it zany , cut it ! " 
the latter is the only explanation i can come up with for the absence of the thoroughly charming michelle trachtenberg for most of the movie . 
michelle ( who plays penny , gadget's niece ) shines in every scene she's in , but unfortunately she only gets about nine minutes of screen time . 
my guess is that the rest is on the cutting room floor . 
dabney coleman's comedic talents are utterly wasted as chief quimby . 
i kept expecting him to say or do something really funny and somehow save the film , but instead , he does the best he can with some really poor lines in a few unexceptional scenes . 
he is thoroughly upstaged by cheri oteri as the " gidget bitch from hell " town mayor . 
oteri's overly enthusiastic and continually self-congratulatory speech patterns and mannerisms were so much like portland , oregon's own manic mayor vera katz that i had to wonder if the studio wasn't poking fun at our fair town . 
or , maybe all career politicians are like that . 
i must say , matthew broderick does not stroll through inspector gadget as he did godzilla . 
he appears to have some fun with the film , especially as the evil gadget . 
rupert everett is entertaining as the maniacle claw . 
joely fisher does fine as the zany scientist and even better as the zany carbon copy of herself . 
her performance is one of the few things worth watching in the film . 
d . l . hughley plays the shuckin'-and-jivin' vehicular side-kick , in a role that firmly sets emancipation back 20 years . 
the dialog is . . . let's face it , it's pretty bad . 
the tag-line after a major set-piece battle is a faux pas that makes no sense in context . 
a lot of the lines ( especially hughley's ) appear to be made up as they go along , by people with little gift for ad-lib . 
about three-quarters of the film is a somewhat unnecessary origin story for both gadget and claw . 
gadget then spends the latter third of the movie trying to locate claw and having various altercations ( not really " battles " ) with the evil gadget . 
penny does about a minute and a half of the detective work her character did every week in the cartoon . 
let me rage here just for a minute . 
michelle trachtenberg was an excellent choice for the penny character . 
she's utterly charming , and has excellent experience ( harriet the spy ) for the part of the pint-size detective . 
why she is so underutilized in this film is a real mystery . 
the film loses a star for casting brilliance coupled with scripting ( or editing ) stupidity . 
inspector gadget is missing the long , long stretches of potty humor that ( among other things ) made my favorite martian so unbearable , but it's a very short movie , so perhaps something was cut at the last moment . 
probably the best scenes in the film occur during the end credits . 
the " evil sidekick support group " is especially worth seeing , and has an amazing number of cameo appearances for the few seconds it's onscreen . 
all in all , another bad live action film from the premere studio for bad live action films . 
i wonder if disney uses the revenues for it's generally money-making cartoons to produce these losers . 
but if true , why ? 
if they're trying for another mary poppins , they need to find a team that can produce one , and then give them a chance to do it . 
hong kong cinema has been going through a bad spell . 
the last few productions have been effect laded action adventures that combine both the best and worst of american filmmaking with the same qualities of hong kong films . 
in a nutshell , the current crop of films from hong kong has been maddeningly convoluted and visually sumptuous . 
with the one time british colony reverting back to mainland ownership , a lot of hong kong's best talents have crossed the pacific to work on u . s . productions . 
such talents as jackie chan ( rush hour ) , chow yun-fat ( anna & the king , the corrupter ) and yuen woo-ping ( the matrix ) have all moved into the budget bloated world of hollywood filmmaking with mixed results . 
now we can add two other hong kong filmmakers to the mix with star jet li and director and fight choreographer corey yuen kwai . 
unfortunately " romeo must die " bears all the trademarks of a typical hollywood action film and none of hong kong's rhythms . 
the film opens in a nightclub as an asian couple is necking . 
enter a group of chinese gangsters led by kai sing ( russell wong ) . 
kai confronts po sing ( jon kit lee ) , the son of kai's boss and leader of the local chinese family . 
a battle breaks out between the bodyguards of the club and kai , who handily kicks and punches his opponents down . 
it's not until club owner silk ( rapper dmx ) , bears down on kai and his henchmen that the fight ends . 
the following morning po sing is found dead . 
suspicions escalate , as issac o'day ( delroy lindo ) is told of the murder . 
his concern that the war between his and the chinese family may explode and ruin his plans to move out of the business of corruption and into a legitimate venture . 
issac implores his chief of security , mac ( issiah washington ) to watch after his son and daughter . 
the scene shifts to a prison in china , where han sing ( jet li ) learns of his brothers murder . 
he fights with the guards and is dragged off to be disciplined . 
hung upside down by one foot , han recovers and battle his way out of custody in a blistering display of fight choreography and stunt work . 
escaping to the u . s . han sets out to find the person responsible for his brother's death . 
 " romeo must die " is in many ways a fun film . 
it is both absurd and assured . 
the basic plot of a gangster wanting to become legitimate echoes " the godfather " . 
the relationship between jet li's han and aaliyah's trish o'day reminds us of abel ferrera's " china girl " , except that romeo must die's couple never once exchange more than a loving glance towards one another . 
their romance is much more puritanical than any other romance in film history . 
the performances are adequate if not fully acceptable . 
li , of course has the showiest part , having to express both an innocents and steadfast determination . 
allayah , in her feature film debut manages to carry what little is asked of her with a certain style and grace . 
it's obvious that the camera loves her and she is very photogenic . 
but , still the part is under written in such a way that even a poor performance would not have affected it . 
delro lindo as issac o'day carries himself well in the film . 
an unsung and under appreciated actor , mr . lindo turns out the films best performance . 
the other performers are all adequate in what the script asks of them except for d . b . woodside as issac's son , colin . 
the performance is undirected , with the character changing his tone and demeanor in accordance with whatever location he is in . 
an unfocused performance that should have been reigned in and / or better written . 
first time director andrzej bartkowiak does a workmanlike job in handling the film . 
having a career as one of the industry's best cinematographers , bartkiwiak knows how to set up his shots , and " romeo must die " does look good . 
but the pacing of the film is lethargic , only coming to a semblance of life during the fight scenes . 
the script by eric bernt and john jarrell is not focused in such a way that we can care about the characters or the situations they are in . 
the big gambit of buying up waterfront property to facilitate the building of a sports center for a nfl team is needlessly confusing . 
and of course the common practice of one character being the comic relief of the film becomes painfully obvious here as anthony anderson as allayah's bodyguard , maurice has no comic timing whatsoever . 
the best things about the film are its fight scenes . 
jet li is a master of these intricate physical battles . 
one needs only to see his film " fist of legend " to understand that the man is without peer in the realm of martial art combat . 
here , jet is given the opportunity to show off in a way that " lethal weapon 4 " ( jet's u . s . debut ) didn't allow . 
unfortunately , a lot of jet's fights are aided with computer effects that detract from his ability and precision . 
also " romeo must die " must be noted as having the most singularly useless effect ever committed to film , and that is an x-ray effect that appears three times during the course of the film , showing the effect of bone crushing blows on an opponent . 
obviously a homage to the famed x-ray scene from sonny chiba's " streetfighter " , the scenes here are just pointless and interfere with the pacing of the film . 
it's as if the film has stopped and a video game has been inserted . 
one problem though about the fight scenes . 
those that are familiar with hong kong action know that even though the films are fantasies and are as removed from reality as any anime or cartoon . 
they do have an internal rhythm to them . 
a heartbeat , so to speak in their choreography . 
the fight scenes in a hong kong film breath with an emotional resonance . 
this is created by the performance , the direction and the editing . 
here in " romeo must die " , there is no staccato . 
every fight scene , even though technically adroit and amazing becomes boring as the editing both cuts away from battle at hand and simple follows a set pattern . 
the rhythm is monotonous . 
a hong kong film has a tempo that changes , heightening its emotional impact . 
'rmd' is limited to a standard 4/4 tempo , not allowing for any emotional content whatsoever . 
a fine example of this difference can be found by examining a couple of jackie chan's films . . 
watch the restaurant fight from the film " rush hour " and notice that the context of the fight , while technically amazing is rather flat ( the framing and cut always do not help ) . 
now look at the warehouse fight from " rumble in the bronx " . 
there you have a heartbeat , and emotional draw that doesn't let the audience catch its breath . 
the stops and pauses for dramatic effect work perfectly , causing the viewer to be both astounded and flabbergasted . 
here in 'romeo must die' , the fight scenes have no more emotional content or character than any john wayne barroom brawl . 
jet li is a grand and personable screen presence . 
it's a shame that his full talents were not used to full effect here . 
one day filmmakers here in the u . s . will stop making films by the numbers and start to embrace the style and emotion that has made hong kong action pictures such a commodity . 
until then , we'll be left with emotionally hollow product like " the replacement killer " and , currently " romeo must die " . 
i wish i could have been in the pitch meeting for this ridiculous notion of a sports film . 
i bet it was some hotshot warner brothers agent with an dark armani suit and manicured fingernails saying , " it would be a very light comedic version of any given sunday , and we could throw in the hoosiers angle with the casting of gene hackman as the tough but determined coach . 
throw in that hunk of a guy keanu reeves and a cast of wacky characters and poof ! 
we'll have a hit on our hands ! " 
the replacements is a hokey mistake of a football film , a mishmash collage of one-dimensional characters , rampant stereotypes of cultures and races , cliched emotional statements of purpose , and keanu reeves wishing for the matrix sequel to start principal photography . 
the story is loosely based around the pro football players' strike in 1987 and a rag-tag team of replacement football players taking up the reins of professional play for a variety of teams with names like the washington sentinels . 
keanu reeves stars as shane falco , a has-been football college player looking for redemption . 
gene hackman dons a fedora like tom landry and speaks with gusto like a certain coach in hoosiers . 
rounding out the cast includes swingers' jon favreau , 7-up pitchman orlando jones , gruff owner jack warden , and cast of wacky and unknown actors who do amazing jobs of portraying perfectly stereotyped characters : the drunken welshman , the overweight sumo wrestler , the black convict , the violent cop , and the dumb , dumb cheerleaders . 
this bunch of nobodies try to make something of themselves by taking the team to the season playoffs with unbelievable football plays , gene hackman yelling and asking himself where the hell dennis hopper is , keanu reeves looking for his body double making him look good on the football field , and cheerleaders hired from the local strip club making the girls from coyote ugly look like waitresses from denny's . 
the usual things happen like clockwork . 
the hero rises from the ashes of failure , the team comes together in unity , the hero falls in love with a conventional love interest , the football games are won with enough schlock value to make the most ignorant of audiences cheer and clap , and the cheerleaders make you want to go home and watch late night movies on cinemax . 
it's also a shame when decent directors with good movies under their belts go to seed and become television and sequel hacks . 
howard deutch , who was behind the camera for two of the best films of '80s - pretty in pink and some kind of wonderful , has since been doing grumpier old men and caroline in the city episodes . 
obviously the problem is that without a good script , any director will fail in the end . 
sports films are strong vehicles for cinematic glory , gritty tales involving the honor of men and the valiant efforts taken for the ultimate goal of victory in the face of insurmountable odds , the rise and fall of gallant heroes , and stories of dramatic gusto painted with blood and sweat on the battlefield of life . 
the replacements offers none of this . 
if you're into watching near on two hours of bored , foul-mouthed florida teens having sex , doing drugs , having sex , listening to eminem , having sex , playing video games , having sex , and killing one of their peers , then " bully " 's for you . 
based on jim schutze's novelization of a true-life event , " bully " charts the story of a handful of disenchanted teenagers who , in 1993 , murdered their high school bully in cold , calculated blood . 
the film could have provided fascinating insights into what turned these aimless kids into premeditated killers . 
in the hands of controversial director larry clark ( " kids " ) , however , it has less to say about its subject matter and more to say about the filmmaker's pornographic proclivities . 
in terms of the incident and what provoked it , " bully " stirs up nothing new . 
the high schoolers are presented as a uniformly screwed up lot--bored with life , not much ambition , promiscuous , profane . 
the bully in question , bobby kent ( nick stahl ) , is certainly an unpleasant piece of work but he doesn't exactly tower over his colleagues in the pathological department . 
he hounds and harries and humiliates his " best friend " marty ( played by brad renfro ) and marty's girlfriend lisa ( rachel miner ) doesn't care for it at all and comes up with the idea of killing bobby . 
simply remove him from the equation . 
marty and lisa and a handful of their promiscuous , profane , and stoner friends , plus a recruited hit man ( ? ) , lure bobby to a swamp one night , stab him , beat him over the head with a baseball bat , and dump him into the canal where the sand crabs and the gators , presumably , finish him off . 
there's no remorse--the next day they're talking about it as openly as a homework assignment . 
they did it because they wanted to , and because they could . 
what's most troubling about the film , however , isn't the unsettling subject matter and the matter-of-fact way these young people go about eliminating one of their own but the way in which clark is constantly distracted by his own material . 
not only is the nudity plentiful and graphic in " bully " but there's also an uneasy , exploitative feel to it . 
gratuitous crotch shots abound ( one of which makes the zipper cut-away in " there's something about mary " look like the height of subtlety ! ) . 
clark is so pre-occupied with his female ( predominantly ) leads that you forget , at times , what this movie is supposed to be about . 
the stripping bare , literally and figuratively , of these actors ( who are , after all , playing underage teenagers ) becomes harder to watch over time , as you begin to feel for them and question the motives of the man behind the camera . 
the conclusion of " bully " offers up literal snapshots of information about the sentences imposed on each of the protagonists for their involvement in the crime . 
it's a short sequence of stills--heather : 7 years ; ali : 40 years ; lisa : life imprisonment , for example--but it's infinitely more telling than the 110 minutes of rampant unpleasantness that precedes it . 
 " bully " aims for truth , exploits it shamelessly , then bludgeons it to death . 
sean connery stars as a harvard law professor who heads back into the courtroom , by way of the everglades , to defend a young , educated black man ( blair underwood ) . 
the guy is on death row for the murder of a white girl , and says that his confession was coerced from the region's tough , black cop ( lawrence fishburne ) . 
watching connery and fishburne bump heads for two hours is amusing enough , but the plot's a joke . 
there's no logic at work here . 
tone is also an issue--there is none . 
director arne glimcher never establishes exactly what his film is trying to say . 
is it a statement on human rights ? 
is it a knock-off of silence of the lambs ? 
glimcher never tells . 
instead , he forces his characters to jump through hoop after hoop , over drawbridge after drawbridge , hoping that the audience won't notice what's missing . 
just awful . 
the madness of king george 107 min . 
/ not rated ========================== 
still wondering who nigel hawthorne is ? 
then check out his oscar- nominated work in the madness of king george , still playing in both raleigh and chapel hill . 
stage director nicholas hytner , in a remarkable screen debut , has adapted alan bennett's 1991 tragic comedy to fine effect . 
sumptuous-looking and only mildly stuffy , the film charts the madness that plagued king george iii ( hawthorne ) almost 30 years into his reign . 
a man of no importance 98 min . 
/ rated " r " ====================== 
in suri krishnamma's a man of no importance , albert finney disappears so deeply into the role of a lovable dublin bus conductor that it's a shame when the film gets so serious around him . 
his character is a conductor with a passion for oscar wilde . 
he reads to his riders , and once a year , with their help , he tries to stage one of the author's plays . 
this year it's " salome . " 
for about an hour , there's a sweet magic behind finney and his troupe of working-class stiffs . 
conflict arises , but it's small stuff--an administrator from the bus company here , an outraged catholic pork butcher ( michael gambon ) there . 
but with finney at the wheel , so to speak , the film rolls smoothly over these plot points--just like the gorgeous leland double-decker bus in the story . 
where things get serious is toward the end of the film , when the plot takes a turn that the bus never would , and the story heads down a very dark alley that marks the end of an enjoyable ride . 
the twist makes sense--and helps paint a complete picture of finney's character--but the trip to get there betrays the light , airy atmosphere of what had come before . 
it's not a fatal misstep , mind you , and it doesn't send the story soaring into the realms of incredulity . 
it's just a turn off . 
dr . strangelove 93 min . 
/ not rated =============== 
mein fuhrer ! 
the most fun that * i * had last month was in durham , at the carolina , at a mid-week screening of stanley kubrick's pitch-black comedy dr . 
strangelove ( or how i learned to stop worrying and love the bomb ) . 
the 1964 film stars peter sellers ( in three roles ) , george c . scott , sterling hayden , and slim pickens . 
their antics brought the house down , which , to my surprise , was packed by an audience younger than the film . 
among multitude of erotic thrillers , that had been released in the early 1990s , woman of desire is interesting only because it was directed by robert ginty , star of the b-grade action films of the previous decade . 
those who tend not to be nostalgic about 1980s can find very good reason in the type of movies that made ginty the star . 
as director , ginty did very little to improve that impression . 
the protagonist of the movie is jack ( played by jeff fahey ) , yacht skipper that falls madly in love with christina ford ( played by bo derek ) . 
however , she has relationship with rich and powerful jonathan ashby ( steven bauer ) . 
one stormy night , the tragedy occurs and jack is accused of rape and murder . 
however , his good friend walter j . hill ( robert mitchum ) happens to be very good lawyer , so jack might even prove his innocence in the end . 
belonging more to the genre of courtroom drama than erotic thriller , woman of desire distinguishes itself from similar films by having almost all characters behaving like total idiots . 
unfortunately , this film isn't comedy and any laugh is unintentional . 
the characters are totally antipathetic and irritating and soon we stop caring what would happen to them . 
the actors that play them don't help either . 
that is especially the case with jeff fahey , whose jack is so stupid that even the character played by fahey in lawnmower man looks like a genius in comparison . 
his partner bo derek , on the other hand , shows that she didn't age enough to cease being the sex goddess , but that is small compensation for her apparent lack of acting talents . 
ginty , on the other hand , tries to bring some life in the movie by using many flashbacks and strange angles of shooting , but in the end it gets only irritating to the already bored and dissatisfied viewer . 
 " lake placid " marks yet another entry in the series of " predator pics " that were a screen staple in the late 1970s ( post- " jaws " ) and were revived recently by the godawful " anaconda . " 
 " placid " claims to be a " horror/comedy " -it's directed by the same guy who did " house " -but its attempts at humor are actually less funny than deadpan seriousness of " anaconda . " 
paleontologist kelly scott ( bridget fonda ) is sent up to maine to examine a tooth removed from a body that had been bitten in half on the lake . 
discovering that the tooth belongs to a crocodile ( which shouldn't even be in this hemisphere ) , kelly goes croc-hunting with game warden jack wells ( bill pullman ) and sheriff hank keough ( brendan gleeson ) . 
they're joined by an unwelcome guest , hector cyr ( oliver platt ) , a scholar who worships crocs and searches all over the world for them . 
along the way , the merry band meets mrs . delores bickerman ( betty white ) , a weird old lady who lives out on the lake . 
you know what to expect from this movie : lots of shots where the camera is the eyes of the predator ( croc cam ) swimming toward someone's dangling legs while " jaws " -like music plays , one character ( hector ) who's obsessed with the croc and stupidly endangers the rest , another character who insists that the predator can't possibly exist . 
unlike its slippery cousin " anaconda , " " lake placid " wants to present its formulaic plot tongue-in-cheek , which is self-defeating . 
the result is neither scary nor funny ; it's just tedious . 
while director steve miner has several horror films on his resume ( including two installments of " friday the 13th " and " halloween h20 " ) , screenwriter david kelley ( best known as the creator of tv series like " ally mcbeal " and " chicago hope " ) doesn't seem to have the stomach for a chomp 'em up flick . 
the body count is surprisingly low and doesn't include any of the major characters , and most annoyingly kelly and hector insist that they capture the crocodile alive rather than killing it . 
 ( " lake placid " manages to have it both ways-i'll let you discover how for yourself ) . 
the croc itself is mostly computer-generated , of course . 
like the snake in " anaconda , " the thirty-foot monster crocodile doesn't seem real ; it moves too quickly and in ways that seem unnatural . 
 " lake placid " also offers little explanation for why a giant crocodile is in maine . 
there is a lot of semi-mystical mumbo jumbo about how " we really don't know much about crocodiles . " 
they would have been better off going with something like the urban myth about alligators in the sewers . 
a movie like this doesn't have to offer much of an explanation ( radioactive mutant ? 
creature from outer space ? ) , but it does have to give the audience something to hang their disbelief on . 
pullman and fonda seem to be plodding through the movie on auto-pilot . 
most of the time , they're probably thinking about killing their agents or wondering if making this movie marks the end of their careers . 
platt and white , on the other hand , seem to be giving their best efforts , and they manage to squeeze a few chuckles out of this sorry script . 
capsule : where are you tonight , leni rienfenstal ? 
starship troopers is an expensive , hateful and unenjoyable piece of violent pornography -- and bad pornography , at that . 
it is not good cinema , not good storytelling , and not even stupid fun : it's so cynically , calculatedly bone-headed that even the least demanding members of the audience i was with were alternately bored and revulsed . 
it's one of the worst movies i've seen in a long time . 
why am i calling this movie pornography ? 
pornography , in the abstract , is anything which is calculated to appeal to the baser instincts . 
i remember reading a review of full metal jacket which described the climact moment at the end of the movie , where private joker has to shoot the downed vc sniper , as " a near-pornographic eternity " . 
i didn't agree with that assessment , but i could see what was being implied : the reviewer felt as if the audience was being incited to stand up and pump their fists and shout " do 'er , man , do 'er ! " 
that sentiment is echoed ad nauseam throughout starship troopers . 
it's * literally * like a giant recruitment film that has gone berserk . 
it tries frantically to enlist our emotions but it winds up only being dull or sickening . 
the film takes place in our future , when earth has come under attack by some alien species that doesn't appear to have intelligence . 
to counterattack , humankind does the single stupidest thing imaginable : instead of nuke the planet from orbit , which they're clearly capable of , they send down grunts with m-16 rifles . 
this isn't heinlein , it's a bad wwii movie , one where all the most obvious points of satire are ever poked and prodded in combat scenes that are noisy , repetitive , and ultimately tiresome . 
 ( one scene has a journalist on a battlefield , filimg soldiers being slaughtered , and ends with groaning predictability : said cameraman gets skewered , too . ) 
the soldiers and their commanders are consistently idiotic . 
they do not possess a germ of tactical intelligence or even common sense . 
they don't even behave like soldiers in a bad * movie * , and therefore we don't care about them . 
we hated the tom berenger character in platoon , but he * mattered * , and therefore we were curious to learn about his fate . 
here , we don't even hate the bugs -- what's there to hate ? 
hating them would be like cursing a hurricaine . 
if there's anything really hateful there , the movie doesn't know how to give it to us . 
the screenwriter ( ed neumeier -- perhaps a better appelation would be " screen typist " ) and director ( the increasingly talent-impaired paul verhoeven ) have not found any way to make the characters or the story serve each other . 
one of the subplots concerns a woman pilot who's great at getting out of tight situations , and does it again and again and again . 
once or twice is fine . 
by the fifth or sixth time , it's worn out its welcome . 
there's never any sense that these people are really thinking their way out of anything , or really being tested to show their mettle . 
also , the movie is irritatingly selective with how effective the bugs are to earthling weaponry . 
if a bug has one of the humans screaming in its grasp , then five guys can stand around it and blast away on full auto without doing a damned thing . 
but if one human gets cornered , he lays waste to whole platoons of bugs with one clip . 
uh-huh . 
the very worst feature of the movie is its repulsive quasi-fascist flavor . 
i say " quasi- " because while the movie uses many of the trappings of fascism ot eroticize its action -- the gear , the uniforms , etc . -- the movie doesn't have the nerve ( or the brains ) to be genuinely fascist , or intelligent about the subject . 
the bumpers between scenes , which are apparently intended to parody wartime recruitment propaganda are propaganda -- just so clumsy and oafish that they wind up making the bugs look relatively innocuous in comparison . 
like the rest of the movie . 
there's more , i suppose , but it's not worth it . 
the acting is bland , neither arsenic nor gravy ; the music disposable ; the camerawork turgid . 
the heartbreaking thing is that it makes independence day look like a masterpiece . 
the classic story & the production which ruined it 
marking the centennial anniversary of the 1896 h . g . wells classic , new line cinema , armed with a stellar cast and expert make-up effects man stan winston ( alien , predator , terminator etc ) churns out yet another hollywood film based on the classic novel . 
of course , the production is no doubt much more superior compared to the earlier 2 movies , one of which was made back in the 1933 and the other in the 1977 , under the title the island of lost souls ( sounds like a much better title . . ) . 
the story begins with edward douglas ( thewlis ) , a un representative sent to oversee a peace treaty somewhere in the south pacific , who is saved from the brink of death by montgomery ( kilmer ) after his plane crashes into the sea . 
douglas soon learns that montgomery is working for dr . moreau , who incidently , owns the island and also a reputable geneticist who has been awarded the nobel prize . 
his host's reluctance to allow him to freely move around the island becomes clear when he stumbled into moreau's lab , when a monstrous birth was in progress . 
even worse , the other workers in the lab are not exactly normal " people . " 
douglas stumbles across yet another shocking discovery when he is led to the beast-people community , which considers dr . moreau their maker . 
using shock-therapy and the law , dr . moreau has long been able to keep his beast-people civilised to some extent but there are a few animal-men who are just too savage to be controlled . 
the island of dr . 
moreau questions the ability of men playing god . 
dr . moreau is a man obsessed with creating a race of beings which is free from hate and violence . . . but the savage within every beast is not something one can suppress for long . 
moreau has no doubt a very interesting premise within its grasp . 
even so , the production has failed to make the most out of it . 
there are too many characters to put your attention to and the worst thing is , the characters are not " prioritized " so when the audience is led to believe that a particular character is important , before they know it , he or she or it perishes . . . . rather 
ungloriously at times too . 
perhaps there is some redemption in the development of the beast people , especially aissa ( balk ) , the most human of moreau's creations . 
the two very important characters , montgomery and dr . moreau himself receive no development at all and it is in this area that the script fails miserably . 
more screen time could have been used for character interaction and development . 
i really would have liked it better if , say , they delved more into dr . moreau's obsession , montgomery's purpose in the story and justification to as why the beast-people had to rebel . 
maybe the nature of the screenplay , which incidently , does not incorporate much action sequences in the film , forced the filmmakers to " cut a long story short " and make it more of an action film than anything else ( it's still summer , and movies have to be " marketable " ) . 
the special effects too , are really nothing for anyone to shout about . 
at most , i would say the beast-men looked just a bit more realistic than those apes in planet of the apes . 
this h . g . wells classic really has potential to be a good film . 
unfortunately , after 2 adaptations , they still could not decide on how and what to focus their attention on to really bring out that important message which makes up the entire essence of the story . 
as a third outing , the island of dr . moreau 
accomplishes little and is nothing more than an inferior version of `the planet of the apes' . 
the flying inkpot rating system : * wait for the tv2 broadcast . 
 * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha ! 
 * * * pretty good , bring a friend . 
 * * * * amazing , potent stuff . 
 * * * * * perfection . 
see it twice . 
lengthy and lousy are two words to describe the boring drama the english patient . 
great acting , music and cinematography were nice , but too many dull sub-plots and characters made the film hard to follow . 
ralph fiennes ( strange days , schindler's list ) gives a gripping performance as count laszlo almasy , a victim of amnesia and horrible burns after world war ii in italy . 
the story revolves around his past , in flashback form , making it even more confusing . 
anyway , he is taken in by hana ( juliette binoche , the horseman on the roof ) , a boring war-torn nurse . 
she was never really made into anything , until she met an indian towards the end , developing yet another sub-plot . 
count almasy begins to remember what happened to him as it is explained by a stranger ( willem dafoe , basquiat ) . 
his love ( kirstin scott thomas , mission impossible ) was severely injured in a plane crash , and eventually died in a cave . 
he returned to find her dead and was heart-broken . 
so he flew her dead body somewhere , but was shot down from the ground . 
don't get the wrong idea , it may sound good and the trailer may be tempting , but good is the last thing this film is . 
maybe if it were an hour less , it may have been tolerable , but 2 hours and 40 minutes of talking is too much to handle . 
the only redeeming qualities about this film are the fine acting of fiennes and dafoe and the beautiful desert cinematography . 
other than these , the english patient is full of worthless scenes of boredom and wastes entirely too much film . 
 , 
out of sight director steven sorderbergh baffles the hell out of us all in the limey , a cold , uninvolving , confusing new thriller . 
though the plot description may at first seem like it came from the pen of elmore leonard ( author of out of sight , as well as jackie brown , get shorty and pulp fiction ) , after you watch it , you realize that it's not nearly good enough . 
in an aggressively non-linear fashion , the limey ( li * mey , noun : an english gentleman ) tells the story of wilson ( terrence stamp ) , a british ex-con just released from a 9 year stint in prison for armed robbery . 
he has come to the us to seek vengeance for the death of his daughter jenny . 
he doesn't know much about the circumstances of her demise , all he has is a name : terry valentine . 
valentine was jenny's former boyfriend , a wealthy and corrupt record executive . 
he's played by peter fonda , in his first major role since the terrific ulee's gold in 1997 . 
seeking valentine's reclusive place of residence turns out to be no easy task for wilson . 
he finally finds the impressive abode high in the mountains and sneaks in just as valentine is having a big party . 
he winds up breaking his cover eventually , setting off valentine's head of security and valentine himself , who decides to run for it . 
what a mess . 
i have no problem when films refuse to be constricted by the linearity of time -- pulp fiction , which twisted time every which way , was a masterpiece -- but i do take exception to movies that decide to play around with it for no reason other than to confuse the viewer . 
the limey does exactly that . 
the plot is permeated with flashbacks , flash-forwards and what can only be described as random time-travel , without any evident purpose . 
there is no method to this movie's madness . 
it uses a fancy way to tell a story that would be better off told more conventionally and more comprehendably . 
the plot isn't particularly interesting in the first place : traditional , mildly hackneyed and not very involving . 
this is a sort of brooding film -- our protagonist doesn't speak much and the action sequences are done with an annoyingly perfunctory attitude . 
i felt like the director wasn't very interested in the proceedings himself , almost like he made this film for a paycheck . 
ditto for the editing , which seems to be deliberately sloppy and unpleasant . 
sixties icon terrence stamp manages to at least be menacing as the aging criminal . 
he's not much in the way of stature but he has a surprisingly imposing physical presence that works to his advantage here . 
peter fonda is an unbelievably underrated actor : he's shy , quiet but always effective . 
he's adept at conveying emotions through speech rather than expression : his feelings don't always show on his face by you can always tell what they are . 
this is basically a conventional thriller told in a pretentiously bizarre fashion . 
why soderbergh couldn't just parrot down and tell a story , i don't know , but what he does do certainly doesn't work . 
the result is a wild cornucopia of images that amount to precisely nil -- even the action scenes don't work . 
1999 may have signified the death of the traditional act one - act two - act three storyline , but obviously some movies have not yet transcended it . 
shall we go back to basics ? 
a pseudo-intellectual film about the pseudo-intellectual world of art magazines , high art is as wasted as its drug-addled protagonists . 
in the only notable part of the movie , ally sheedy and radha mitchell deliver nice performances in the two leading roles , not that lisa cholodenko's script or direction makes you care much about either character . 
living in a world of heroin induced highs , they float along until they fall in love with each other . 
this uninviting picture , full of pretentious minor characters , has a receptionist that reads dostoevski and a woman in the restroom line who is a certified genius , having recently been awarded a prestigious mcarthur grant . 
24-year-old syd ( radha mitchell ) , who has a rather bland , live-in boyfriend , was just promoted to assistant editor at the artistic photography magazine " frame . " 
although the receptionist is impressed , syd is mainly a gofer for her boss until she meets famous photographer lucy berliner ( ally sheedy ) . 
for her to do photos for " frame , " lucy demands that syd be promoted to editor and assigned to her since lucy fancies her . 
lucy lives with her current lover , a washed up german actress named greta , played with a frequently indecipherable series of mumbles by patricia clarkson . 
the two of them and their friends wile away their time snorting and shooting up dope , usually heroin . 
this does not happen in a single episode , but becomes more commonplace than sleeping in the picture . 
syd , who lives in the apartment below them , joins in on the fun and becomes a member of the zombie club . 
lucy seems pretty happy with her life of drugs , which apparently is funded by her mother . 
lucy quit working professionally 10 years ago since she thought she was being " pigeonholed , " and , since her mother has money , we can only assume that that's how lucy supports her habit and procures her living expenses . 
a typical scene has the editors arguing about whether a potential photographer's work is transcendental or merely classical . 
that no one has a clue as to the dogma they are spouting becomes obvious but not particularly funny . 
 " your work has a cultural currency that is important now , " is the artist-speak that the frame's manager uses to convince lucy to show her pictures in the magazine . 
when the big scene comes in which lucy puts the moves on syd , her idea of a romantic line is , " i want to get high with you . " 
in lucy's world , sex and drugs come hand-in-hand . 
and the movie , except for the obligatory scene of someone almost overdosing , shows drug usage as being a hip and natural part of the art scene . 
this vacuous picture throws in a standard downer ending in an attempt to manipulate our emotions . 
in another movie , it might have worked , but in this one the reaction is likely to be decidedly muted . 
high art runs 1 : 36 . 
it is rated r for explicit sex , pervasive drug use and language and is not appropriate for those younger than college age . 
 " party camp , " is one of the most mindnumbingly brainless comedies i've seen in awhile . 
a late rip-off of the " meatballs " series , the film follows a group of young camp counselors at camp chipmunk . 
that's really about all that can be said about the " plot " because nothing much happens , except that the main character , wise-cracking jerry ( andrew ross ) , has the hots for a cute blonde ( kerry brennan ) , and there is a big contest in the climax . 
how fun ! 
since , " party camp , " has practically no screenplay and there is no talent at all involved , the least the makers could have done was make it raunchy and exploitative . 
it's not that i think exploitation is necessarily a good quality , but when you are talking about a dull turkey like this , the least that could have been done would be to fill it with a lot of mindless sex . 
even a psychopathic slasher at the camp would have done the trick . 
at least , then , it wouldn't have been such a chore to sit through . 
never before have i seen so many jokes fall astoundingly flat . 
the comedy was easy to spot , but it wasn't the least bit funny . 
it was groan-inducing . 
constantly throghout , i was asking myself if director gary graver actually thought this movie was worth anything . 
so what saves , " party camp , " from the dreaded zero star rating ? 
well , that's simple : jewel shepard , as a flighty bimbo , was admittedly fun to watch . 
although nothing could have saved this film from the lowest depths of motion picture trash , at least if the film had centered on shepard , she might have been able to add a little spice to an otherwise rancid , low-budget teen comedy . 
i'm currently accepting all future names for drew barrymore characters . 
in _the wedding singer_ , she was julia gulia . 
in _never been kissed_ , she's josie grossie . 
future db character names include : janet granite , janey grainy , and for that nc-17 project in the works , jo-jo . . . 
aw forget it . 
i'll stick to my day job . 
this is a teen movie , all right , except the main characters aren't teens . 
drew barrymore is a copy editor at the chicago sun times who gets her big break as a reporter , only it's very clear from the onset that she lacks the toughness and the pushy extravertedness that marks the best of reporters . 
the story she's covering is not really a story , but a story in the making . 
she is to return to high school as a student and explain what's really going on . 
the irony is that drew's character , was such a dweeb first time around , that she is terrified at going back . 
when she does , she says the wrong things , wears the wrong clothes , and projects the " i know the answer " in class that popular kids ( or at least popular kids in the movies ) reject . 
at least she befriends nerdy aldys ( joan of arc's leelee sobieski--watch for her ) , who turns out to be more beautiful than those who are " supposed " to be more beautiful than her . 
what works : drew's geeky old-self . 
after a start in films that was headline driven , and a nadir of roles that had her play the sluttish character , it's a surprise to see her with bad hair , big glasses and braces . 
it's very funny . 
what doesn't work : drew's geeky new-self . 
come on . 
nobody dresses as bad as she does . 
couldn't she just go to _the gap_ and take suggestions ? 
had she dressed like princess leia it would have been better . 
the comedy is supposed to progress when drew's younger brother ( played with zest by david arquette ) reenlists to jump-start his baseball career . 
now , how in the world can somebody as nerdy ( but in a funny way ) as he can be the most popular kid in the school . . . 
in a day ? ! 
the dialogue in the film is , well , an embarrassment . 
her co-workers ( molly shannon , john c . reilly and gary marshall ) are in terminal hyper-drive . 
her teenage peers ( except sobieski ) are so inept and stupid that there's little bite from them . 
couldn't the filmmakers watch _heathers_ first ? 
lastly , i am proud to say that i caught a significant gaffe in the film . 
if you see the film , you'd know what i'm talking about : 
drew walks into a bar , has her hand stamped , and over the night associates with some rastafarians with some delicious , um , cake . 
she goes wild , sleeps in late . 
when she wakes , she rushes off to school , without showering , without noticing that her head , lying on her stamped hand all night , has transferred part of the stamp's image to her forehead , spelling " loser " . 
funny , eh ? 
 . . . except that the hand would have transferred that image backwords . 
when it comes to the average teenage romantic comedy , i expect negative reviews from critics left and right . 
predictable , unoriginal , and forgettable will most likely be the three adjectives to haunt the down to you's and the drive me crazy's released by the dozens these last couple of years . 
what i really look for in this kind of movie is the entertainment value while i'm sitting in the theater . 
am i enjoying myself ? 
is this a comfortable break from my week of finals ? 
this is why i have given films like final destination or road trip high marks ; i had a party of a time wasting my money on something i won't remember next week . 
so last week i opened up the new york times - and , no surprise , boys and girls got a negative review . 
daily news ? 
negative . 
reelviews ? 
negative . 
epinions . com ? 
negative . 
this was nothing new . 
american pie , final destination , road trip didn't get such hot reviews and i loved those guilty pleasures . 
same goes for she's all that , a formulaic but enjoyable pygmalion adaptation that got unjustly pounded . 
since boys and girls reunites she's all that director robert iscove and actor freddie prinze jr . , i predicted d ? j ? vu al over again . 
but , still curious , i asked around my school and from the one or two people who had seen it , the reactions were far from positive . 
i had made up my mind ; i'll catch it on video or cable in a couple of years . 
but , soon after , following a series of unexpected events ( we couldn't get into shaft because it is rated r ) , i found myself watching boys and girls . 
whoops . 
boys and girls is about a " nerdy , smart " boy named ryan ( prinze jr . ) and a " popular , flirt " girl named jennifer ( claire forlani ) . 
briefly meeting as pre-teens and now attending the same college , the two bump into each other so many times that eventually they become best friends . 
but in the movies , a male and a female cannot be friends without having that nagging feeling of attraction for each other . 
with advice from their roommates ( amanda detmer , jason biggs ) , ryan and jennifer attempt to discover the true meaning of their relationship . 
the film definitely lives up to the dreaded three adjectives - and mindless entertainment is nowhere to be found . 
i could hardly sit through the 93 minute running time for several reasons . 
the dialogue is probably the worst i have ever seen in any movie , mainly because the whole movie depends on the boring script and the ridiculous words these characters use is what hollywood thinks kids can relate to . 
it is almost offensive . 
an example of an insightful conversation : 
 " you're dumb . 
dumb , dumb , dumb , dumb . " 
 " no . " 
 ( followed by a mandy moore-esque tune background ) 
 ( well it's not as bad as wing commander i guess ) 
the supporting cast is also painfully useless . 
detmer and biggs stand in the way for anything interesting to happen with their own boring , pointless subplots . 
and although this is supposed to be from both perspectives of the human sex , prinze jr's ryan dominates the screen while forlani's jennifer simply acts as a dilemma for him to work with . 
we never learn anything about jennifer which is a shame too because forlani is the only actor to bring any life into her character . 
teenager or not : you'll hate this movie , i guarantee it . 
maybe i should rent she's all that again . 
is it really as good as i think it is ? 
all through its production and into the early days of its initial , aborted pre-release publicity , hard rain bore the appropriate moniker of the flood . 
ultimately , however , paramount pictures , nervous that this movie would be confused with 1996's other , underperforming disaster films ( dante's peak , volcano ) , changed the title and shifted the release date by nearly a year . 
but , to paraphrase the bard , swill , by any other name , would smell as rank . 
no number of name changes can help this picture . 
it's not just about a disaster , it is a disaster . 
hard rain is the case of a movie that gets progressively worse with every passing minute . 
the best shot occurs during the opening credits , as the camera pans over the streets and byways of huntingburg , indiana as the water level slowly rises . 
the community , protected by an overworked dam , is being evacuated as the rain continues to pour relentlessly from the cloud-choked skies . 
from that moment on , it's all downhill . 
whatever initial entertainment value the film possesses has long since drained away by the halfway point . 
it takes forever to get to the end credits -- this is one of the longest-seeming 95-minute motion pictures i have recently endured . 
basically , hard rain is one extended , dull chase sequence punctuated by occasional shoot-outs . 
there's a lot of water , broken glass , gunfire , and explosions . 
it's all very routine and uninteresting because there aren't any real characters and the plot only occasionally makes sense . 
the film's conclusion is so preposterous that it's almost worth watching for the sheer masochistic enjoyment of seeing the monumentally idiotic way that the film makers decide to resolve the myriad subplots that are floating around . 
action films are supposed to become progressively more invigorating as they rush towards a conclusion . 
graham yost , the writer of both speed and hard rain , surely understands that principle . 
unfortunately , neither he , nor cinematographer-turned-director mikael salomon ( a far off place ) , applies it . 
the action in hard rain grows tedious through repetition . 
we see the same kinds of things -- speedboat chases , flood damage , shoot-outs , etc . -- over and over again . 
the movie constantly recycles about twenty minutes worth of material to pad the running time out to an acceptable movie length . 
the storyline gives us a number of paper-thin characters in contrived circumstances . 
there's tom ( christian slater ) , the one- dimensional action hero who works as a security guard driving an armored car full of cash . 
he and his partner , charlie ( edward asner , tv's " lou grant " ) , get stuck on a street that's rapidly turning into a river . 
a group of men , led by jimmy ( morgan freeman ) , arrive on the scene not as rescuers but as robbers . 
after charlie is killed in a shoot-out , tom hides the money , then runs . 
as he swims and boats his way through huntingburg's roads , he encounters some of the locals : karen ( minnie driver ) , a would-be love interest ; a bickering old couple ( richard dysart and betty white ) , who are on hand to provide comic relief ; and the easily-corrupted sheriff ( randy quaid ) , whose seeming helpfulness hides sinister ulterior motives . 
there isn't any real acting in this film . 
christian slater utters a few lame one-liners and does a lot of mugging for the camera . 
tom is easily one of the most lifeless characters the actor has brought to the screen . 
randy quaid sneers a lot , and is totally unconvincing . 
morgan freeman and minnie driver both attempt to give legitimate performances , but they are defeated by the script . 
freeman , one of the best cinematic thespians working today , looks suitably embarrassed to be here , but i suppose everyone needs a good paycheck from time-to-time . 
following in the wake of twister , this is yet another natural disaster movie that doesn't trust nature's fury as the chief engine of conflict . 
as a result , we are saddled with an idiotic good guys/bad guys story that effectively ruins any potential that the flood tale could have had . 
titanic proved that there can be a wealth of drama in a movie where everything goes under water . 
hard rain successfully demonstrates that the opposite is equally possible . 
thus far this year , hollywood has already subjected us to its unique brand of moronic mayhem by fire ( firestorm ) and water ( hard rain ) . 
fortunately , there are only two elements left . 
instinct is the kind of movie that inexperienced moviegoers will undoubtedly label as " powerful " or " touching " . 
i have a name for it myself : " gross " . 
this is the sort of film where somebody stands up to a bully , the bully looks at the " rebel " threateningly , about to hurt him , and then everyone else whom the bully has heretofore controlled stands up too . 
how that scene is still present in so many movies today appalls me : aren't present day moviegoers beyond being " inspired " by something like that ? 
this is one example ( there are actually some more in instinct alone ) of filmmakers insulting the audience's intelligence . 
instinct's plot is brimming with potential : world-renowned anthropologist ethan powell ( anthony hopkins ) disappeared for two years whilst doing research in the jungles of africa . 
he was found and is coming back to the united states a convicted killer ; he murdered to african policemen who were allegedly trying to capture him . 
after committing a few more brutal acts of violence in the airport , the authorities stick him in a prison's " psychotics ward " . 
assigned to do an evaluation on powell is a bright ( or so we are told ) young psychiatrist theo caulder ( cuba gooding jr . ) . 
caulder starts out doing the evaluation merely for the purpose of furthering his career . 
of course ( and no mainstream filmmaker would ever have it any other way ) he starts really caring for powell and he becomes fixed on helping powell prove that he is not a psychotic and that he should not be in prison . 
and then there's the inevitable " heartless meanie " character , in the form of donald sutherland who plays caulder's mentor . 
he cares for caulder but does everything he can to discourage him from helping powell . 
let's get one thing straight : dr . theo caulder is the most blatantly incompetent psychiatrist i have ever seen , on screen or off . 
any good shrink will listen to what his patient has to say no matter the subject because any good shrink will learn a great deal about his patient that way . 
not good old theo . 
no , he asks purposefully pointed questions and when powell dares to venture to another subject caulder says " we need to talk about this right now . " 
this is a flaw only in the sense that it detracts from instinct's already dubious credibility ; unfortunately it's also the least of its problems . 
director jon turteltaub , who made the delightful john travolta vehicle phenomenon as well as the surprisingly above-par cool runnings decided to make this movie so shamelessly sentimental that , contrary to what this movie's promotion would have you believe , it has much more in common with patch adams than with the silence of the lambs . 
it's not the kind of sentimentality that can almost bring tears to your eyes ( what dreams may come aptly demonstrated that ) but the kind that brings vomit up your esophagus ( excuse the graphic depiction ) . 
it aims to " inspire " rather than to touch hearts . 
as yoda would say , inspire it does not . 
it is the ultimate sign of futility when a screenwriter ( the very experienced gerald di pego ) has to resort to literally telling the audience a movie's story . 
indeed , somewhere in the beginning of instinct , one of the characters actually reads aloud the film's plot to another character . 
this , like the instance i mentioned in the first paragraph of this review , is a horrid insult to our intelligence . 
i am forced to wonder whether turteltaub and di pego did not think that we could figure out what instinct is about simply from regular conversation . 
i think that anthony hopkins is one of the greatest screen actors , and he chews the scenery in this movie , brilliant as ever . 
oscar winner cuba gooding jr . on the other hand is dreadful . 
his performance is at least part of what makes his character seem so incapable of being a shrink . 
i liked the guy in jerry maguire as well as in as good as it gets but here he fails to project any shred of credibility or real feeling . 
i love animals , and instinct's prominent save the gorillas/live in harmony with nature theme is certainly something i could sympathize with . 
however this movie's execution is completely unacceptable . 
tone down the violence and this will be a chick flick . 
 ? 1999 eugene novikov 
sydney lumet is the director whose work happens to be of varied quality . 
he is praised for some of the most important films of the previous decades , like twelve angry men , serpico or the verdict . 
but , in the same time , almost any of such pearls is followed by stinkers that hamper lumet's reputation . 
a stranger among us , 1992 rip-off of peter weir's witness , belongs to the latter category . 
the heroine of this movie is emily eden ( melanie griffith ) , tough lady cop who sometimes shows too much enthusiasm in battling bad guys on the streets of new york . 
during one of such actions , her partner nick ( jamey sheridan ) got hurt and as a result , she becomes depressed . 
in order to help her recover , bosses give her rather easy task of locating missing jeweller who belonged to hassidic jew community . 
emily starts investigation and soon realises that the case involves murder . 
concluding that the perpetrator belongs to community , she decides to go undercover . 
that isn't easy , because her modern manners are colliding with traditionalist ways . 
things get even more complicated when she develops feelings for young cabalistic scholar ariel ( eric thal ) . 
using peter weir's formula isn't the greatest flaw of this film . 
even the lame and unispiring crime mystery subplot works to the certain extent . 
but the worst insult to viewer's audience is terrible miscasting of melanie griffith . 
the author of this review never liked this actress very much , but she was at least tolerable in some of her roles . 
role of emily eden , unfortunately , isn't one of them . 
first of all , she can't pass for tough nypd street fighter , and her attempt to pass for orthodox jewish woman isn't much better . 
screenplay by robert j . avrech makes things even worse with some formulaic red herring subplots ( scene involving two italian gangsters was almost too painful to watch ) . 
but , on the other hand , other actors are more convincing ( lee richardson as an old rabbi , thal as ariel and charming mia sara as his intended bride ) , and the photography by andrzej bartkowiak very effectively creates atmosphere of warmth when the scenes take place in hassidic community . 
also , the film might educate viewers about hassidic culture . 
that is the only thing that prevents it from turning into total waste of time . 
 " the world on land -- it's just too big for me . " 
starring tim roth , pruitt taylor vince , bill nunn , clarence williams iii . 
rated r . 
the legend of 1900s is the year's most absurd movie , a rambling , nonsensical piece of seafaring garbage that goes nowhere fast . 
it stars thespian extraordinaire tim roth , looking wistful as ever , as a guy named . . . 
1900 . 
you heard right . 
his name is , in all actuality , 1900 . 
he was born on an ocean liner on 1/1/1900 ( uh , hence the name ) , abandoned and adopted by danny , a ship crewman . 
1900 spends most of his early years hiding in the bowels of the ship because of danny's fear that he might be taken away from him because of " visa matters . " 
well , when 1900 is about 9 or so , he starts wondering all around the ship . 
one day , he discovers a grand piano . 
he sits down and starts playing . 
miraculously , what comes out is beautiful . 
a group of onlookers gathers to watch this stunning prodigy make such amazing music at such a young age . 
when one of the people who knows 1900 tells him that his playing the piano like that without permission is " totally against regulations " 1900 replies " f * ck the regulations ! " 
ho ho ho . 
1900 grows up never setting foot on dry land . 
when he's about 30ish and can play the piano like nobody's business , onboard comes another musician . 
his name is max ( pruitt taylor vince ) and he plays the trumpet . 
after 1900 catches max barfing everywhere during a storm , he sits him down on the piano next to him , takes the piano's braces off and plays while the piano flies all around the hall , taking them with it . 
how the chair they're sitting on and the piano don't separate , i don't know , but this apparently isn't the kind of thing we're supposed to ask . 
after that , 1900 and max become friends . 
max is determined to get 1900 off the ship and discover what he is missing on land , but 1900 has no intention of doing so . 
what's more , he doesn't even want his music to go anywhere without him : when a record company hears about his talents , they come on board to make a record of his music , but after finding out that -- gasp ! 
-- they're going to make millions of copies , he breaks the record . 
the conflict of the movie is that after max , unsuccessful in his endeavor to get 1900 off the ship , gets off himself , he stumbles upon a record of 1900's music in a store . 
the record shouldn't exist because a ) 1900 never stepped on dry land and b ) the one record that was made on the ship was broken . 
ladies and gentlemen , it's a mystery ! 
the story itself is ludicrous and uninteresting and so are its elements . 
we're supposed to be roused by a climactic . . . 
piano duel ? 
there isn't anything in this movie with the potential to compel . 
1900 comes off as a whiny , brooding , extremely unlikable man : i can't recall a single word he said that was not some sort of depressing pseudo- meditation on life . 
ditto for max , who doesn't seem to have a life outside his friendship with 1900 . 
tim roth plays 1900 with about as much panache as a fig leaf ; there's no spirit , no gusto to the character . 
he insists that he leads a happy life on the ship , but to us he is dead . 
pruitt taylor vince is a little more palatable , at least providing a moment of comic relief here and there to liven things up a bit . 
the highlight of the movie would have to be the eminently amusing clarence williams the iii as the arrogant , leering " king of jazz " who challenges 1900 to the aforementioned piano duel . 
the legend of 1900 was made by giuseppe tornatore , whose 1988 cinema paradiso is considered a masterpiece by many . 
this effort is utterly limp and lifeless . 
at once ridiculous , boring , narrow-sighted and pointless , this is one movie that should be -- and will be -- quickly forgotten . 
my giant is two movies for the price of one , but neither is worth the cost of admission , even if you get in free . 
as lamely directed by michael lehmann , the picture tries to be a comedy by using and reusing every giant joke in the book . 
 ( " without goliath , david is just some punk throwing rocks . " ) 
languidly paced throughout , the movie becomes increasingly lugubrious as the screenplay by david seltzer ( the omen ) meanders toward its sad ending . 
since it's rarely funny or convincingly dramatic , what the filmmakers thought they were doing remains a mystery . 
other than a few nice visuals , there's nothing to recommend the picture . 
with great film comedies under his belt from when harry met sally ? to the original city slickers , billy crystal has shown that he's more than the world's best oscar host . 
he does , however , have a propensity for choosing hopeless material as in last year's father's day and this year's my giant . 
one wonders if he reads the script before agreeing to go ahead with a project . 
surely reading the one for my giant would have shown that there was nothing there . 
perhaps he thought he could ad lib it into success . 
or maybe he wants to be a dramatic actor and thought he could do something serious with the movie's somber tone . 
the most charitable thing that could be said about it is that it is so ineffectual that people will probably forget they saw it by the next day . 
this one-joke movie's single idea is to place real-life basketball player gheorghe muresan , who stands seven and a half feet tall , into as many visually striking situations as possible . 
sammy ( crystal ) , an agent currently without clients , is rescued after a car accident by a sweet romanian giant named max ( muresan ) . 
after throwing out constant one-liners ( " either god is in the salvage business or big foot just took my car . " ) , 
sammy decides to get serious , seeing max as his meal ticket . 
and although he doesn't like it , he's willing to sign max up to do disgusting events like a wrestling match with a half-dozen dwarfs . 
 ( the movie itself knows no bounds as it contains one of the most putrid and lengthy vomiting scenes ever . ) 
after a series of missed opportunities , the comedic part of the movie is over , and it turns into a cheap and maudlin disease movie . 
we learn that max's condition is terminal , and he will soon die . 
to be fair , the movie does contain a few good scenes - all of which you can see in the trailers . 
let's hope billy gets himself a pair of reading glasses before he signs up for another movie . 
my giant runs too long even at just 1 : 37 . 
it is rated pg for violence and profanity and would be acceptable for kids around ten and up . 
my son jeffrey and his friend matthew , both 9 , gave the movie a single star and had nothing good to say about it . 
matthew pointed out that it " is not as good as it could have been or should have been . " 
 ( amen . ) 
he went on to comment that he did not like the way the movie changed completely in the middle . 
jeffrey complained particularly about how gross the movie was . 
talk about a movie that seemed dated before it even hit the theaters ! 
spice world is the feature film debut of the pre-fabricated pop band , the spice girls . 
it's intended as a sort of hard day's night , but ends up simply hard to watch . 
when watching the spice girls , i'm reminded of an old saturday morning cartoon trick ( such as from the smurfs , the snorks , or teenage mutant ninja turtles ) in which identically animated creatures are differentiated into characters merely by one personality quirk and a different name . 
the spice girls are themselves as interchangable as pringles , and about as talented . 
there's ginger ( geri halliwell ) , the brainy one , sporty ( melanie chisholm ) , the athletic one , baby ( emma bunton ) , the childish one , posh ( victoria adams ) , the fashion-conscious one , and scary ( melanie brown ) , the one with a tongue pierced back so far you're almost certain the post sticks out her throat . 
the film itself doesn't really have a plot . 
it follows the girls as they travel here and there , culminating at their " first live performance " at albert hall . 
the action , however , seems more like a hodgepodge of mismatched ideas . 
the various misfires include : an alien encounter , a fiendish tabloid editor scheming to wreck the spice girls , the shooting of a spice girls documentary , a movie producer ( george wendt ) trying to pitch various ideas for a spice girls movie ( nearly all of which , though incredibly far fetched , seem more plausible than the mess with which they ended up ) , a meeting with a pregnant friend ( whose sole purpose seems to be to maintain the film maxim that all pregnant characters must give birth before the movie ends ) , a boating adventure , a bus race , club-hopping ( wherein apparently no one notices the famous spice girls among the crowd . . . even 
when they start to sing ) , and an assorted number of musical performances , press conferences , and general all-around celebrity stuff . 
whew . 
for some reason , the film is littered with star cameos . 
from elton john to elvis costello , from bob hoskins to meat loaf . 
heck , even roger moore shows up , though he can't decide if he's parodying himself as james bond , or if he's lobbying to be the reincarnation of ernst stavro blofeld . 
richard e . grant has the largest secondary part , a thankless role of the band's manager , clifford . 
the celebrity spotting is partially amusing , and a decent way to pass the time when confronted with the rest of the film . 
neither amusing or spontaneous , when the spice girls are between songs they are deadly boring . 
their songs are alright , but they play like lifeless adaptations of the music videos . 
my advice to fans is : stay home and watch that video collection , or at least spin that cd a couple of more times . . . either 
option will be more enjoyable than the film . 
non-fans should know to stay well away from this one . 
this feature is like a double header , two sets of clich ? s for the price of one . 
not only do we get the usual tired sports chestnuts , but the banal rich girl-poor boy love story is tossed in for good measure . 
an original moment in this loser is as rare as a chicago cubs world series appearance . 
the screenplay by kevin falls and john gatins , based on a story by falls , merely lobs its plotline at the audience . 
this is a story that needed sent down for seasoning and more coaching . 
summer catch centers around ryan dunne ( freddie prinze jr . ) , a cape cod youth chosen to participate in the prestigious cape cod baseball league , supposedly a showcase for the best young amateur and college players in the country . 
ryan is a blue-collar kind of guy . 
he works with his dad taking care of the lawns of cape cod's rich and famous . 
he also , as we are informed early , his own worst enemy . 
he has the potential and the talent , but always seems to self-destruct at the crucial moment . 
so , ryan tries to remained focused on baseball . 
then he meets tenley parrish ( jessica biel ) , daughter of one of the blue bloods whose lawn he manicures . 
tenley , a name only a hack screenwriter could invent , is unlike her snobbish counterparts and falls for ryan . 
if you can't figure out where all this nonsense leads , then you need a remedial course in film viewing . 
as always prinze is pretty to look at , but his performance mainly consists of facial expressions : puppy dog love , heartbreak , frustration , self-loathing or determination . 
biel cries a lot , while bruce davison merely acts smarmy as her class-conscious father . 
the only beacon is matthew lillard's fun-loving billy brubaker , the team's catcher . 
summer catch borrows situations and stylings from other baseball movies , such as bull durham and the natural . 
no curve balls here , no sliders . 
every pitch is predictable . 
a blind umpire could call this movie . 
summer catch is strictly rookie league moviemaking . 
it has as much chance of making the movie hall of fame as the dodgers have of moving back to brooklyn . 
one of the responses those that enjoy " detroit rock city " ( probably kiss fans , mostly ) might have upon first glance at the rating i've given the film might be something like : " oh , that casey's gone and become a jaded critic on us . 
just what did he expect out of a dumb teenage rock n' roll movie like this ? " 
i'm wondering the same thing . 
i feel like i should have had a grand time with " detroit rock city . " 
it's the sort of movie i wish i could've had a lot of fun with , but i didn't . 
i just didn't . 
surely this film isn't trying to win any major awards , so should i have expected an oscar-caliber film ? 
no , but i expected something . 
a funny joke . 
a clever prank . 
a plot development . 
anything . 
the movie never delivers . 
you've got to marvel at how the filmmakers managed to come up with a movie that is truly about nothing . 
 " detroit rock city " is one of those films that you walk out of after the credits have rolled and realize that you just spent 90 minutes watching a movie in which absolutely nothing happened to justify the film's existence , and it's not a very satisfying realization . 
the film is about four teenage boys , all huge kiss fans from cleveland , trying to get into a kiss concert in detroit , michigan . 
that's it . 
there is no big plot description in this review , because the movie has very little plot . 
the characters are hawk ( edward furlong ) , lex ( giuseppe andrews ) , trip ( james debello ) , and jam ( sam huntington ) . 
they have a garage band . 
they're pathetic , like all garage bands , but they like kiss and they like rock n' roll , so i guess that means we root for them . 
they have tickets , they lose them . 
they get more tickets , they lose those too . 
they come up with crazy schemes to get tickets , most of which backfire . 
there's not much more to it . 
frankly , it becomes a little less than exciting to see them try to get kiss tickets about halfway through the film , when a total of eight tickets have already graced the boys' hands , only to be lost because of their sheer stupidity . 
oh , and jam ( real name jeremiah ) has a really , really annoying ultra-religious mother who ought to be reported to the child welfare agency . 
she doesn't want them to see kiss , if you hadn't figured that out already . 
it's really quite disheartening to see such a fine soundtrack go to waste in a pointless movie like this . 
we've got plenty of kiss , along with some ac/dc , ramones , and thin lizzy . 
then again , " maximum overdrive " had an awesome soundtrack ( me being the big ac/dc fan that i am ) , but is probably one of the worst movies of all time . 
 " detroit rock city " doesn't quite reach that level of ineptitude , but it gets dangerously close . 
in fact , the music is the only thing that keeps this movie from being a complete failure in my mind . 
basically , the soundtrack has earned the film a full half-star , which means all the bands involved can pat themselves on the back ( except for marilyn manson , whose half-hearted cover of ac/dc's " highway to hell " sounds like something my neighbor's cat coughed up ) . 
it's also really sad to see the talents of the cast go to waste , because it' s evident that they're all trying really hard to squeeze some life out of this dead turkey of a movie . 
edward furlong has done far better work than this , and so has natasha lyonne , and so has lin shaye , but hey , they've got to make a living in hollywood . 
people wanting to see kiss , and lots of it will probably be disappointed , considering the band appears for about five minutes and plays one song . 
too bad , they might have provided some energy to this mess . 
director adam rifkin knows he hasn't got much material to work with , so he takes a chapter from the michael bay book of directing and keeps his camera spinning . 
we get an endless parade of quick-cuts , split-screens , zoom-outs , zoom-ins , and rotating cameras , all in an effort to cover up the sheer stupidity of the script . 
it's fun for a while , but eventually it becomes disorienting . 
i would recommend that those who felt seasick at " the blair witch project " stay far away from " detroit rock city , " because the witch has got nothing on this baby . 
i haven't felt such an urge to reach out and hold the camera still since " armageddon . " 
and what about that script ? 
it's written by carl j . dupr ? , which sounds like as made-up a name as i've ever heard . 
if it is , i can't say i blame the writer for distancing himself as far from this script as possible . 
a plotless , pointless rock n' roll movie can be fun , if the jokes and gags are actually funny . 
the jokes in " detroit rock city " rarely are . 
in fact , the only time i really laughed was when a priest gets stoned on a marijuana-laced pizza , and that was just because it was so surreal . 
the rest of the movie just seems like they just threw a bunch of vulgar stuff up on screen and called it " comedy . " 
there is no set-up , just a succession of punchlines that don't provide for much in the way of chuckles , precisely because there was no set-up . 
it's as if they just whacked someone on the head , pointed at him and said , " see ? 
funny ! " 
look , that woman was so shocked by hearing loud kiss music that she spilled her drink . 
see ? 
funny ! 
look , that guy just got clocked by a telephone receiver . 
twice . 
see ? 
funny ! 
look , that kid has been vomiting for 20 minutes after drinking an inordinate amount of alcohol and is now about to perform an exotic dance for money . 
see ? 
funny ! 
a word of advice to mr . dupr ? : no , these things aren't funny all by themselves . 
they must be preceded by a clever set-up so the audience hasn 't predicted them five minutes in advance . 
that's it , i've said enough about this movie . 
it's a waste of time and money . 
i liked the music , but don't bother buying the soundtrack . 
i hear it' s just modern bands doing inferior versions of the songs that are actually in the movie . 
you want to see this concept executed well ? 
go rent roger corman's 1979 classic " rock n' roll high school . " 
it features another late-seventies rock band ( the ramones ) and a far more interesting story about a girl trying to get tickets to their show . 
yes , go rent that , and skip " detroit rock city , " which will probably bomb , and deservedly so . 
has it really been two decades since walter matthau coached the bad news bears ? 
nineteen years and two mighty ducks later , the formula is still going strong . 
police academy graduate steve guttenberg stars as a small-town deputy sheriff corralled into co-coaching the school's hastily formed soccer team . 
his partner-in-crime is the new british " exchange teacher " ( olivia d'abo ) , a lively lass who has obviously seen dangerous minds and knows that the best way to gain the respect of a disinterested , outer-city audience is to teach them something neat . 
like soccer . 
most of the good-natured gags are of the fast-motion variety , such as runaway cows and out-of-control lawnmowers . 
kids will laugh at the occasional belching bit , while their parents peacefully doze beside them . 
other than letting a supporting character named newt go unscathed , what's missing from the big green is a better integration of music and comedy . 
instead of a peppy pop score , which would arguably work to better effect , most of the action is set to a bombastic orchestral score that belongs somewhere else . 
comedy needs music . 
just watch any old bugs bunny short . 
the marx brothers knew it . 
mel brooks knows it . 
unfortunately , the current trend is to " overscore . " 
lush strings and booming brass in every scene , at every moment . 
remember the simple strains of bizet's " habanera " in the original bad news bears ? 
these days , it's usually a bellowing fanfare that threatens to smother every scene in its path . 
much like adding frosting to already frosted cake . 
an awfully big adventure ======================== 
the reteaming of director mike newell and star hugh grant is about as far removed as you can get from the lightsome comedy of four weddings and a funeral . 
their second collaboration is a downbeat theatrical drama about a young intern ( georgina cates ) struggling to survive in post-w . w . ii 
liverpool . 
hugh plays the gay director , an * extremely * unappealing character who may alienate whatever fans are left after the nonsense of nine months . 
bleak make-up and thick accents conspire to make this a difficult story to settle into . 
an awful adventure is not without * some * rewards , tho . 
the peter pan subtext is intriguing . 
as is the diverse ensemble cast that includes peter firth , alan rickman , and prunella scales . 
basil ! 
devil in a blue dress ===================== 
the comparisons to chinatown are easy enough , except for the fact that this film isn't nearly as gripping . 
writer/director carl franklin ( one false move ) is the force behind this accomplished-but-stiff adaptation of walter mosley's crime novel . 
denzel washington is as sturdy as ever , but he's burdened with a miscast supporting cast . 
tom sizemore and scene-stealer don cheadle are both fine . 
the problems start with jennifer beales , who never registers as the plot's femme fatale . 
she's a pretty face and nothing more . 
also underweight are maury chaykin and terry kinney . 
they play opposing mayoral candidates in 1948 los angeles and neither actor commands enough authority to stifle giggles . 
john huston , we miss you ! 
fine period detail and a strong sense of humor are a plus . 
they help to overcome a pace that's too polite for mosley's jazzy , swingin' story . 
steal big , steal little ======================= 
i can't say much about this one . 
director andrew davis follows the fugitive with a wildly unfunny farce about twin brothers ( andy garcia ) with opposing moral codes . 
they're fighting over their adoptive mother's estate , a 40 , 000-acre ranch worth millions and supporting dozens of migrant farm workers . 
so many different plots are trying to come together--feuding brothers , reconciling husbands , loan-shark hired hitmen--that you have to admire the director's ambition . 
too bad that almost every single person or plot-line is out of sync . 
that is , with the exception of alan arkin . 
he's the best thing in a movie that--despite the work of four credited writers-- * still * manages to waste such diverse talents as david odgen stiers , kevin mccarthy , and joe pantolinao . 
and what the heck does that title mean ? 
funny how your expectations can be defeated , and not in good ways . 
the ghost and the darkness promised ( at least , it seemed to me to promise ) a hemingwayesque showdown between men and nature . 
what it delivered was mystery science theater 3000-level material -- an inadvertently hilarious story that made me scream advice at the characters . 
 " get new jobs ! " 
was one line , if i remember correctly . 
at the end of the 19th century , col . patterson ( val kilmer , whose irish accent comes and goes like an african zephyr ) is an engineer who has been hired to build a british railway bridge across the tsavo river in uganda . 
he is having immensely stereotypical problems : the natives are restless , his boss is a jerk , and now two man-eating lions are stalking the work camp and killing people off . 
patterson tries to handle the situation himself , incompetently , and then turns to charles remington ( michael douglas ) , a hunter of world reknown ( or something like that ) . 
the movie stacks the deck so heavily in favor of the lions , they should have gotten top billing and co-starred with siegfried and roy . 
they are nigh-invulnerable , as one comic book put it , and this is of course just the excuse the movie needs to have one native after another stepping forth to solmenly recite lines about the power of nature . 
give me a break . 
the movie hasn't got the wherewithal to even begin to exploit such ideas ; it's just trying to find convenient ways to stall us . 
even the lion hunts themselves are idiotic . 
get this : remington's big plan is to build a large scaffold-like structure in the middle of the savannah , sit on it , and wait for the lion to show up . 
he does this , and then gets knocked off by a bird . 
by the end of the movie , the blood vessels in my palm were all broken open from me pounding my forehead with my hand . 
the acting is forgettable . 
douglas does a good job of portraying a relatively cracked fellow , but it's nothing he hasn't done before . 
kilmer looks like he wishes he were someone else , somewhere else , and the rest vanish into the cinematography . 
the camera , by the way , sometimes behaves so stupidly all by itself that most of the lion attacks are incoherent . 
what did i expect from this movie ? 
i dunno . 
some real excitement , i suppose . 
a sense that there were formidable forces on both sides of this equation . 
no such luck . 
i dug out my tattered copy of hemingway's " the short happy life of francis macomber " and read that to get the taste of this movie out of my mind . 
unfortunately it doesn't get much more formulaic than one tough cop . 
there's the renegade cop with the loser partner who has to many problems to explain . 
the renegade has to prove his good name and is trapped between the good guys , the bad guys and some woman who really has nothing to do with the story other than being there for the purpose of providing sex for the hero in the middle of the film . 
bo dietl ( pronounced deedle , baldwin ) is one tough cop , a guy who is being investigated by hardass fbi agents due to his association with the ny mafia . 
on top of that problem , he has a drunk , gambling addicted partner ( penn ) who has a penchant for collecting parking tickets ( i guess cops aren't immune ? ) . 
then , throw into the mix the femme fatale ( gershon ) . 
right there you have plenty of ammo for a decent cop drama . 
but right in the middle of the film , they throw in a completely un-related plot point . 
dietl and his partner duke try to solve a case that they have been warned to stay away from . 
the film spends over half an hour tracking the case of a nun who was beaten and raped to near death . 
once the case is solved , the film shifts focus back to the mafia issue . 
whatever neat mesh the screenwriter wanted to create between the two stories failed miserably . 
aside from being asked to accept michael mcglone as a mafioso ( an insult if you ask me ) the performances were pretty good . 
baldwin , though he occasionally slips into an impression of his brother alec , does a fine job as one tough cop . 
penn , who also slips into an impression of his brother sean , is even better as a loser tough guy cop . 
what one tough cop lacks is originality . 
this film offers nothing new . 
nothing that you can't get from any cop film . 
it screams sidney lumet all over the place , perhaps because it was produced by marty and michael bregman , producers of lumet's dog day afternoon and serpico . 
but even the masterful sidney would not have been able to make one tough cop into a good film . 
too much else is lacking . 
i also saw the boom mic pop into the top of the frame twice early on in the picture , something that i almost never notice . 
but once i saw that , i had it in the back of my mind every time i saw a medium or long shot . 
at times , i was hoping to see it . 
one tough cop isn't laughable , nor is it a terrible film , but it just isn't unique . 
it is a classic example of a film that didn't need to be made . 
but one thing is for sure , it could really use a better title . 
supposedly based on a true story in which the british drive to build a rail bridge deep in africa grinds to a halt after a pair of lions start killing off the workers in 1898 . 
john patterson ( val kilmer ) , the bridge building expert set to oversee the operation , tried to rid his operation of the lions , but fails . 
a world renound hunter , remington ( michael douglas ) , is called in and the battle , man against lion , begins . 
this film has a great soundtrack , and wonderful scenery . 
the acting is not too bad except the characters are all so thin . 
we only see one side of each character . 
kilmer is a bridge builder and that's all we see him as . 
these lions kill dozens of his men and he doesn't even appear to be too upset about it . 
and the plot ? 
it's jaws , but with lions . 
again we're presented with an animal that behaves not at all as it should . 
it appears to kill men because it just likes too . 
why ? 
who knows . 
i guess there wouldn't be much of a story if it didn't . 
the problem is that there isn't much of a story even though it does . 
of course i knew this going in . 
why is it that whenever a tv-star makes a movie it's always a romantic comedy , and then they say on entertainment tonight or something , that they were " attracted to the characters . 
they were really original . " 
original ? ! let me give you a run-through of picture perfect : character a ) kate ( jennifer aniston , from tv's friends ) , a smart , beautiful , professional woman wants two things she can't have : a new job-title and the love of her co-worker kevin bacon . 
her boss will only give her the job if she gets married and gets a mortgage and gets a lease on a german sportscar , and kevin bacon pnly sleeps with married or involved girls . 
what does she do ? 
she invents a fiance ! 
then when everyone wants to meet him , she tells some poor schmoe she met at a wedding that she will pay him $1000 to pretend to be in love with her for a company dinner , and pick a fight with her at the end , thus breaking the engagement but still being able to keep her job , since the guy ends up looking like a jerk and she is the poor , defenceless female . 
he , of course , goes along with it . 
gee , i wonder if they get together in the end . 
i've seen more original stuff on the wb . 
and better stuff too . 
picture perfect also makes the mistake of being _wayyyyy_ too long at 100 minutes , and expecting us to like aniston's character , who comes off as a cold , spoiled bitch . 
louie is a trumpeter swan with no voice . 
in order to woo his lady love serina , louie makes friends with a young boy , sammy , who persuades teacher mrs . hammerbottom ( carol burnett ) to allow louie to attend class . 
louie learns to read and write and returns to his flock , but is laughed at once again when no other swans can understand his message of love for serina . 
to make matters worse , louie's father feels he's lost his honor because of the trumpet he stole for his son in this animated version of e . b . 
white's " trumpet of the swan . " 
as jane austen and henry james have become popular sources for adult filmmakers over the past decade or so , e . b . 
white is being returned to for children's films . 
the animated " charlotte's web " has become a minor classic since its release in 1973 and 1999 brought us a live action version of " stuart little . " 
 " trumpet of the swan , " directed by richard rich ( 1999's animated " the king and i , " the " swan princess " series ) , is unlikely to be remembered along with those two . 
 " trumpet of the swan " is receiving a regional theatrical release , but is sure to quickly appear on home video . 
boston is one of the targetted cities because our hero louie becomes famous playing his trumpet in beantown . 
he encounters a gypsy-like con man in the public gardens who pitches louie and his trumpet as an added attraction to boston's swan boats . 
louie stays at the ritz carlton before giving a concert at the hatch shell along the banks of the charles river . 
at this point , louie's earned enough money so that dad can pay for the trumpet and become musically capable enough to win over serina's father . 
 " trumpet of the swan " features flat background art , some poor sound syncing and insipid , sugary songs . 
this effort would be better suited to saturday morning television than the big screen , but may be ok for the real small set . 
one of the most respected names in american independent filmmaking is john sayles . 
he has built a strong reputation with films like matewan and the secret of roan inish , and one of his best was his last film , lone star . 
after sayles gave us this complex and unconventional look at ethnic tensions on the us-mexico border , expectation ran high for his next film . 
unfortunately , his men with guns is not the film anyone was hoping for . 
we are essentially told in the first reel where the film is going to go and what it is going to do . 
then the film does exactly what it promised , a painful as that is . 
the plot of men with guns can be summarized " in a central or south american country things are really bad for everybody in the mountains where the army clashes with the guerrillas . 
dr . fuentes did not believe how bad things were so he went . 
and he found out again and again and again . " 
of course it is perfectly true that in many places in that region armed conflicts have turned life into a living hell . 
a guerrilla war is always bad for civilians . 
but the film talks down to the viewer . 
dr . fuentes ( played by federico luppi ) teaches medicine in the capital city of his country . 
he has , as a great humanitarian gesture , trained and inspired some of his best students to go into the mountains and make the world a little better for the poor indios . 
fuentes believe the students to be up there doing humanitarian service . 
then he discovers one of his best students has instead returned to the city and runs a squalid private pharmacy . 
in shame and disappointment fuentes asks the student what has happened to the others . 
the student tells him the others are still in the mountains , but suggests that it may not be a good place to be . 
fuentes goes off to find and visit the doctors , ignoring the advice of his family and a patient who happens to be an army general . 
the results are little different than one would expect . 
dr . fuentes starts out incredibly naive . 
even some american tourists , present in the film mostly for comic relief , seem to know better than dr . fuentes that things have gotten pretty bad in the mountains . 
but fuentes has to go from one scene of barbarity to another and discover how wrong he was . 
sayles certainly could have used 126 minute of screen time to tell us something more profound than that nasty things are happening down there and most of the worst happens to the unarmed civilians . 
the cast is mostly unknowns to american audiences . 
federico luppi is the good mexican actor who played the antique dealer torn by mysterious forces in cronos . 
damian delgado makes a late appearance as an army deserter . 
mandy patinkin has a small role made to look bigger in the trailer . 
'traffic violation' dr . daniel's review of u-turn 
dr . d's rating : critical condition ( 
okay , here's the deal . 
i'll be the first one to grant that everybody needs a day off now and then . 
i'll even go so far as to say that a vacation is a necessary part of doing any job well . 
i mean , hey , i've been known to stretch a weekend into a three-day outing , if friday looks to be a slow day . 
and if monday ain't looking like a pick-me-up , well , i've been known to give martha nell a call and say , " do me a favor , sweetheart . 
bump old man ferguson's boil lancing to tuesday morning , and tell miss audrey that i'll swing by her house monday evening and see if we can't get her trick knee back in line . " 
a simple sentence like that , and i've got a nice four-day fishing trip with the boys , or more often than not , a trip up to cherokee , n . c . , for jackpot bingo and assorted other mountain funnery . 
but the point is , if you take a day off , do something different . 
if you've worked yourself silly for months , relax a bit . 
sleep in . 
eat pancakes at noon . 
microwave an egg in its shell . 
watch pro wrestling with the sound off . 
listen to some barry white records at high speed . 
whatever . 
but do not , under any circumstances , spend your vacation doing the same thing you do for a living . 
and , if you do , don't make the final product look ten times worse than it would any other time . 
because i do not want to hear your sob stories , oliver stone . 
you apparently thought you needed a break from making " important films . " 
cool . 
so you found this hinky little book and decided to make it a movie . 
that's cool , too . 
but , ollie , old sage , do not take a good story and a hot cast and make one of the most pointless and worthless films of the decade . 
i'm just eager to meet you one day , so i can buy you a stoli , look you in the eye and say , " what in the wide world of sports were you thinking with u-turn ? " 
and i'll stand there staring 'til i get a straight answer . 
sean penn stars u-turn , as bobby , a drifter who's had some troubles a while back . 
he's heading cross the desert minus two fingers when his mustang ragtop blows a radiator hose , stranding him in superior , arizona , held there by an " ignorant , inbred , turtleneck hick " of a mechanic named darrell . 
while darrell puts a new hose on the ride , bobby walks into town to see what's cooking . 
is it needless of me to say that superior , arizona , is not exactly the shiny scrubbed home of all things lovely ? 
probably not . 
bobby meets up with grace ( jennifer lopez ) , who invites him back to her place , for drape-hanging and other domestic issues . 
just as those issues are starting up , grace's husband , jake , storms in , looking like check-out day of the elks lodge convention . 
just beats bobby silly . 
bobby takes to the road , only to meet up with jake again , and jake asks bobby to kill grace . 
a little while later , grace asks bobby to kill jake . 
them murderous arizonians . 
gotta love 'em . 
if any of this sounds familiar , congratulations . 
you win a kewpie doll . 
the story is a straight shoplift of red rock west , a cult favorite a few years back from john dahl , maker of the phenomenal the last seduction . 
but the contest doesn't end there , guys and gals . 
we get steals from russ meyer movies , where everybody in town is horny and sweaty . 
we get the town from bad day at black rock , minus the train , plus busty women who can speak . 
look at any schwarzenegger film , and you'll see our hero , bobby , as bobby has a mudhole stomped in his keister a dozen times , has his ribs stove in at least fifteen times , gets bit by a tarantula , gets shot at , and ends up with vultures circling overhead , all the while getting up like he just got a shaving nick . 
bobby as terminator ? 
stretch it a bit , and we have a five-finger discount from doc hollywood , where the whole story occurs because of car trouble , forcing the main character to stay at the mercy of the town and the mechanic . 
okay , he's working from a book , so maybe ollie's not totally to blame for blatantly copping these ideas . 
i just expect a man who can make up an alternative history of the united states to be able to craft a few original ideas before exposing the negative . 
i just wish he hadn't brought a cast like this together for what amounts to a group toe-stub . 
sean penn gives a great performance , and jennifer lopez and nick nolte are as on target as they can be , playing over-the-top caricatures of stereotype characters . 
the best thing about the movie is watching penn react to the madness around him and try to figure out exactly what the blankety-blank is going on . 
too bad it's not fun to watch when it's happening to us . . . while 
we sit through this mess of a film . 
u-turn is not a bad film if you're a fan of technique . 
it's the oliver stone you've always known . 
robert richardson is his usual cinematographer , and rob and ollie know how to shoot a flick -- great camera angles , shifting viewpoints , wicked colors , nice looking pictures . 
but pictures of what ? 
i think i'd rather stare at a xeroxed envelope for two hours than try to figure out the tilt-o-whirl point of this loser film . 
plot twists are one thing , repetition is almost unforgivable , and this is dang near as unforgivable as any movie i've seen in the past five years . 
oliver , i know your body of work is nothing to sniff at . 
you've been nice enough to limit us to only one doors movie , and films like platoon , jfk , wall street and nixon give us plenty to dig on . 
your scripts are certainly respectable , your budgets are up there on the screen , and your actors don't dog it . 
and i know that , maybe , with u-turn , you were just kicking back , just having fun . 
that's fine . 
but don't do that with a movie with the potential of this one . 
do some police academy sequel ( imagine that . ) 
do a big comedy , like a remake of it's a mad , mad , mad , mad world . 
but do not drop a limp u-turn out of your pocket and expect us to accept it as " an oliver stone movie , " and not question why it stinks like week-old snook . 
there's a right way to have fun , and a wrong way to have fun . 
this was as wrong as you can get without going to jail . 
there are two things the american film industry should avoid at all costs . 
one is letting an ambitious actor convert one of his or her favorite novels into a feature film . 
two is never greenlight a sci-fi film starring john travolta . 
to wit , we present the disaster that is battlefield earth . 
a science-fiction opus starring the barbarino of the actors guild , battlefield earth should be shown only at maximum-security prisons when a prisoner is tossed in solitary for bad behavior . 
sci-fi is always a tricky beast : tight script , a good director , an ensemble cast of decent actors , and the ability to suspend even the most difficult of disbeliefs . 
battlefield earth fails at achieving even one of these attributes . 
here's the `plot . ' 
the year is 3000 . 
mankind has been become an endangered species thanks to the conquest of a race of aliens called the psychlos ( sounds like either the latest clown act from cirque de soleil or a white rap group ) . 
a small band of humans dwell in radioactive caves located in the rockies in fear of the `demons' who dwell in the cities below . 
the psychlos are strip-mining the earth for its resources and terel , played by travolta , is the head of security for the mining/slave base located in denver . 
a young rogue named jonnie goodboy tyler , played with dramatic flair by barry pepper , ventures from the safety of the caves into the city to uncover the truth about the `demons . ' 
he is promptly captured and taken to the alien base . 
after several attempts at escape , johnnie is placed in the middle of an underhanded subplot of terel's , involving circumventing gold from an exposed vein in the rockies to his own end . 
jonnie , assumed leader of the mining slave group , then manages to attain all psychlo and human intelligence through a learning machine terel forces him to use . 
then the story just runs along until jonnie teaches the rest of the humans the basics of trigonometry , the bill of rights , how to use a machine gun , and how to fly a harrier jet . 
the whole mess concludes with a big , loud , obnoxious gun-and-plane battle that had me praying for the end credits . 
roger christian , the director of this lumbering beast , must have rented dune , blade runner , planet of the apes , independence day , stargate , beastmaster , the airwolf episodes , the `v' miniseries , the matrix , and the omega man . . . 
and decided to steal every scene he could for battlefield earth . 
christian even shoots every scene in a weird dutch angle titled left or right for every frame of the movie ! 
and every scene in the movie ends with a middle wipe -- really . 
the psychlos reminded me of a cross between jamaican basketball players with bad teeth and bloated hands and klingon extras working the star trek convention circuit . 
travolta's acting hasn't been this bad since the experts or maybe perfect . 
jonnie goodboy tyler evolves into william wallace with lines like `you can have your freedom if you fight ! ' 
then there's the script : the film just never convinces you that the plight of jonnie in teaching his fellow humans to fight and `take back the planet' would be a difficult task to achieve . 
why ? 
because terel provides all the necessary tools to incite a revolt -- for no particular reason beside the fact that `humans are stupid . ' 
terel may be right , you know . 
humans made this movie . 
would you believe -- in real life , i mean -- that if you were julia roberts , that you'd be the ugly underdog to your sister , the creepy catherine zeta-jones ? 
let me tell you what reality is . 
reality is that you are megastar julia fricking roberts and your brother is eric roberts , and he picks up whatever crumbs of stardom fall off your coattails as you blaze across the sky in a golden chariot . 
that's reality . 
america's sweethearts is the opposite of reality , a train wreck that tries to sell julia as a scruffy also-ran , presumably because she wears horn-rimmed glasses and used to be overweight ( uh-huh ) . 
the plot follows two married , mega-movie stars , gwen and eddie ( zeta-jones and poor , poor john cusack , whose material gets worse every year ) , on the eve of their new star vehicle's release , a film called time over time . 
the only problem : gwen and eddie have gone through a nasty separation , and the press and public have not been forgiving ( think meg and dennis ) . 
gosh , and the director has vanished with the film , holding the only print hostage . 
veteran pr agent lee ( billy crystal ) is called upon to clean up the mess , throwing a press junket in the nevada desert to woo them with the story of a possible reconciliation between the gwen and eddie , presumably distracting the stupid , stupid film critics into forgetting they haven't seen the movie at all . 
 ( note to sony : any studio executive that thinks this plot is going to win points with the reviewing press needs to check into rehab . ) 
and did i mention gwen's sister kiki ( roberts ) is along for the ride ? 
and that she and eddie just might fall in love along the way ? 
oh billy , you're a scamp ! 
the script you've co-written with peter tolan ( what planet are you from ? 
and bedazzled -- need i say more ? ) is a roast of hollywood and celebrity , sure , but it's not a funny one . 
yes , crystal tells us , hollywood is lying to our faces ! 
if you are surprised by this , you might want to check on your subscription to people magazine . 
it's about to expire . 
aside from a scant few zingers ( yeah , se ? or winces rules ! ) , 
america's sweethearts' jokes aren't funny , its pace is choppy , and the whole affair comes off as a vanity project -- not for headlining star julia roberts -- but for billy crystal to deliver a bunch of lame punch lines that he wrote himself . 
i didn't time it ( the movie's not that bad ) , but it's crystal who really has the most screen time and is the unequivocal focus of the film . 
bad move , billy -- your jokes suck . 
the crotch humor is outpaced only by the meanness of the movie's gags -- and with unsubtle sexual innuendo dripping from every scene , how this movie earned a pg-13 rating is a mystery to me . 
julia overcame a lot of spiteful writing and acting to make my best friend's wedding into a winning film , but not even that 90-tooth smile can save her here . 
obviously aware of the ugliness before him , director joe roth turns to goofy supporting characters like hank azaria ( as a lisping spaniard ) , christopher walken ( the insane time over time director ) , and alan arkin ( a new age guru in a fright wig ) to crack wise . 
none of the stereotypes is successful except for walken ; azaria comes off as a preening queen when he's supposed to be macho . 
as for roth , in case you don't know , went from direcing revenge of the nerds ii to launching his own movie studio , revolution , which produced this work . 
he's back behind the camera for the first time in 11 years . 
it'll probably be another 11 before he's back again . 
i could drone on about how america's sweethearts will only appeal to the mouth-breathing morons who talk on their cell phones during the movies , but that would get old . 
instead , i'll settle for discussing the movie's worst sin : that sweethearts is painfully contrived and wholly unbelievable , not just in its plot but in its sentiment . 
every single character in this film ( with the arguable exception of kiki ) is simply hateful , and putting them in a romantic comedy is a waste of a bunch of villains . 
when you leave the theater , you'll ask yourself , too : why would i want any of these jerks to be happy ? 
rated : r for strong violence , language , drug use , nudity , and some sexuality . 
starring : wesley snipes , anne archer , michael chaykin , donald sutherland , marie matiko . 
running time : 117 minutes 
directed by : christian duguay 
i've never fully understood wesley snipes's career . 
he has his ups and downs , but mostly the downs . 
his best movie was one of the best of 1998 and that movie was entitled " blade " . 
he has had his typical action movies , " boiling point " , " passenger 57 " , but his new movie " the art of war " should just be called " rising sun 2 : the art of war " cause basically it's a semi-remake of the same plot , with a different cast , and forced to be a ridiculously unbelievable thriller , that is high on style and low on substance . 
wesley snipes plays a james bondish type secret agent working for the u . n . after a chinese ambassador is killed , he is on the track of the killer , trying to find out who it is , how it happened , where the killer was , and what to do . 
anne archer plays his " boss " type person of the u . n . and she has hired snipes to track down the killer . 
well snipes is mistakenly framed as the killer , and is now an outlaw , kidnapping a chinese woman with him , and having her help him along the way . 
all this leads to a finale that is so dumb , and so stupid that is it unbelievably dumb , and the stunts , dialogue and acting all ruin this movie . 
wesley snipes isn't one of my favorite actors because of the fact that the character he plays in every movie is the same character he plays in the movie before . 
the only good role snipes has really had was in 1998's " blade " . 
i walked into " the art of war " expecting a good , high octane thriller , and all i got was a pile of mush . 
the only real 'good' thing the movie has is action , and plenty of it , but i noticed it is badly filmed , the camera is so shaky you cannot even tell what is going on . 
the ending finale is so worthless and pitiful , that it even tries to mock " the matrix " , laughably funny , it is undeniably stupid . 
christian duguay's direction is also not that great . 
his camera angles and sense of style are all in place , but sadly his lighting and editing are all badly done . 
even the whole " matrix " ending wasn't even good . 
the stunts and action are badly filmed , and badly choreographed . 
his placing of the characters , and the assination of the chinese ambassador , and the plotting of the movie are so predictable and laughable , that it just takes all the fun out of the entire movie . 
anne archer who is usually good in her roles , turns in a horrible job here . 
she is sour , downbeat , and dreadfully dull with her forced dialogue , and dumb moves . 
even donald sutherland as a co-star can't save this movie from being a bust . 
so for an overall opinion : " the art of war " is a total waste of time . 
it's not entertaining , nor exciting , or even action packed . 
it is a pointless movie , and makes absolutely no sense at all . 
if you really want to see a good version of " the art of war " , rent the wesley snipes and sean connery action vehicle of the same kind " rising sun " , it isn't a great film either , but at least it's better than this . 
movie reviewers have an obligation to see the good , the bad , and the despicable . 
i originally wrote this review for my college newspaper back in '95 , but i wanted to re-write it because not all retro reviews should be about the classics . 
we need to be warned about some truly awful films , too . 
this picture was so bad , it inspired the description for my 1/10 rating ( see ratings chart below ) . 
the only thing saving it from a 0/10 rating is that being able to rent a movie like this is slightly less embarassing than renting a porno . 
so , it does indeed have some plusses . . . 
in fairness , elizabeth berkley is certainly worth seeing in the buff . 
and her ability to whine and irritate us , even while nude , was appropriate in her role as selfish temptress nomi malone . 
this character is not smart , not interesting , and ( deliberately ? ) 
far too annoying far too often . 
like in 1998s " bulworth " , when the movie was over i didn't care one little iota about the main character . 
at least warren beatty tried to make a statement with his dreary and overrated film , though . 
 " showgirls " is too stupid to make a statement . 
some people claim that the story is based on the legendary " all about eve " of all things ! 
if exploitation expert joe eszterhas was half the screenwriter that joseph l . mankiewicz was , he'd be . . . well , 
he'd be a good screenwriter . 
instead , this project may have sunk his career . 
he wrote the ( ha ha ! ) 
script and the usually reliable paul verhoeven directed . 
the same team who created a good sex-film in 1992 ( " basic instinct " ) struck out here with their occasional violence , gratuitous x-rated sex scenes , and numerous ( and quite unnecessary ) lesbian overtones . 
the predictable storyline revolves around nomi streaking into las vegas to make it big as a dancer . 
after the supposed street-smart young " lady " gets conned out of her suitcase by a slack-jawed yokel in the opening sequence , she befriends a tailor of the glamorous stage production at the " stardust hotel " . 
nomi doesn't take advantage of this contact to break into the big-time of dirty dancing right away . 
first , she becomes a lap dancer at a scummy strip club . 
she sells her hot little wares at " the cheetah " for a short time , turning on the fictitious customers and the actual theatre audience . 
hey , i never said she wasn't a hot number . . . 
maybe it's that , her body , which gets her into the big-time when the star of the " stardust hotel " , crystal connors ( gina gershon ) stops into the strip club ( it certainly isn't her brains or pleasant disposition ! ) . 
crystal requests a private lap dance for her boyfriend ( kyle maclachlan ) . 
he also happens to be the pleasure-seeking worm who runs the big show . 
crystal gets nomi onto the " stardust " team and , after an interminable amount of time , nomi " earns " the role of crystal's understudy . 
the slut then deliberately injures and hospitalizes crystal . 
it was almost laughable that nomi had the guts to claim that she's " not a whore " . 
that's a phrase we hear a few different times and it's completely ludicrous . 
of course she is ! 
she sells her soul to make it big , but in the end we're supposed to believe that she's a better person than that . 
we're supposed to root for her . 
no way ! 
she's a tramp and a back-stabber who deserved nothing--least of all vindication in the . . . ahem . . . climax . 
she is not a good person and they take over two hours to explain that the audience should think that she is . 
the sub-plot with a male dancer ( glenn plummer ) who claims to see talent in nomi is just a gratuitous opportunity to let her dance naked a little bit more . 
it sure ain't character development ! 
plummer also appeared in " speed " in '94 in a smaller , yet better role . 
this sub-plot goes absolutely nowhere except maybe to deliver an unsubtle hint that fornicators should practice birth control . 
kyle maclachlan must have been promised a big pay-day or his standards have dipped since appearing in " blue velvet " . 
that picture was weird , but some critics claim it's one of the best movies of the '80s . 
now ol' kyle can say that he acted in one of the worst of the '90s , too . 
his sleazy character is important to " showgirls " , but we don't learn anything about him . 
he uses people to get what he wants , but that only means that he fits in well with the other characters in this movie . 
is he a villain ? 
who cares ! 
ultimately , this movie is as tiresome as it is explicit . 
everyone must know by now about the soft-core acts of copulation , especially the riotous romp between berkley and maclachlan in his pool . 
what few reviewers take issue with is how mean-spirited this movie is . 
everyone's either having sex , exacting revenge , or wishing they were having sex or exacting revenge . 
it's just too hard to take ( especially for over two hours ) . 
if we must be exposed to the evils of the vegas world , why couldn't verhoeven have also made a point of highlighting the whispers , grunts , and other sounds during the dance numbers ? 
it's hard to care about these people if we can't even appreciate what they're capable of doing on-stage . 
berkley may have a future in hollywood because she can dance and she has a great body . 
after all , the world of porn is still an active , dishonourable profession . 
perhaps berkley could join their ranks and leave the real acting to pauly shore and cindy crawford . 
oops , they're bad actors , too . 
well , at least , they're not selfish and contemptable like good ol' slutty nomi malone . 
useless trivia--ironically , elizabeth berkley played virtuous and " holier than thou " jessie on the teeny-bopper tv show , " saved by the bell " , before breaking onto the big screen . 
mr . nice guy is the latest jackie chan film , so you should know what to expect . 
a weak plot , terrible dialogue , very little acting ability , but some jaw-dropping action sequences that nearly make the rest of it worthwhile . 
however , mr . nice guy lacks the sparkle of jackie's best efforts , and its weaknesses are more glaring than ever . 
jackie chan plays , who else , jackie . 
this time out , he's a famous chef who hosts an australian cooking show . 
not that it ever makes a difference in the plot . 
there are only two scenes of him cooking . 
for the rest of the film , somehow he mutates into jackie chan , supercop . 
it never does explain why his character has such superb martial arts skills . . . perhaps he was in the same cooking class as steven seagal in under siege ? 
a tv newswoman , diana ( gabrielle fitzpatrick ) , covertly tapes a drug deal involving kingpin giancarlo ( richard norton ) and a local gang of toughs , the demons . 
although she only has one camcorder , somehow the result is full of close-ups and multiple angles . . . hmmm , 
shades of broadcast news ? ? ? 
anyway , the goons discover diana , and will do anything to recover the tape . 
here lies another crucial flaw in the story : doesn't anyone realize you can copy a tape ? 
oh well , no one ever said jackie chan movies had to make sense . 
as luck would have it , diana runs across jackie , and , wouldn't you know it , jackie accidentally ends up with the tape . 
this leads to countless chase and/or fight scenes which look like they could have been lifted from rumble in the bronx or nearly any other jackie chan movie . 
in a move apparently designed to woo american ( and other english-speaking ) audiences , the film uses english as its primary language . 
however , that doesn't mean an end to the atrocious dubbing that has afflicted jackie's recent americanized releases . 
strangely , many of the characters speaking english are overdubbed with english , and poorly too . 
whether this is just a very bad case of looping , an effort to minimize accents , or a simple case of nostalgia , it does achieve the same level of distraction present in all of jackie's dubbed films . 
the plot in mr . nice guy is negligible , merely an excuse to have jackie on the run from various goons . 
but even though plots have always been second to the action in jackie's films , it seems odd that the filmmakers have stuck us with this tired retread . 
look , if you have jackie chan playing a chef , why not use that to your advantage ? 
watching jackie doing his stuff in a kitchen , beating the bad guys with foodstuffs sounds like the perfect setup for innumerable comic stunts . 
the action is a mixed bag here . 
there's really only one no holds barred fight scenes that have become the trademark of jackie's films . 
it takes place in the arbitrary location of a construction site , apparently for the sole reason that there are lots of nifty things lying around that can be useful ala jackie chan . 
the action in the film is neither jackie's best nor worst , but you long for some more inspiration in the scenes . 
the film's gratuitous use of slow motion is distracting . 
once or twice , it may be useful to highlight a spectacular stunt sequence . 
but to slo-mo jackie running ? 
either this is a nod to the six-million dollar man , or a pathetic attempt to disguise the fact that jackie may be slowing down . 
if you've seen all of jackie's films and are in need of another fix , go ahead and see mr . nice guy . 
however , if you're just in the mood for some good action , you'd be better off hitting the video store for some of his better work , such as supercop . 
 " first rule of fight club is , don't talk about fight club . " 
this quote deals directly with my opinion of this film , because quite frankly , it's not even worth mentioning . 
director david fincher ( seven ) has completely gone over the edge . 
with crude humor , an intolerable script and 2 hours and 19 minutes of pure torture , i'm surprised i didn't walk out . 
this just goes to show that hype kills . 
it's very rare that a film so hyped up as " fight club " turns out to be noteworthy , and this is no exception . 
the story goes like this . 
edward norton is an insomniac trying to enlighten his dull life by going to a variety of disease therapy sessions , until he meets marla ( helena bonham carter ) . 
norton claims that she is wrecking his pleasurable lifestyle , when he spots her at a session that he also attended . 
apparently the disease sessions help them see what life is like , literally living in pain . 
why any person would think of such a thing is beyond me , but things do get worse . 
norton is soon assigned to a job that calls for traveling , and it's on a plane that he meets tyler durden ( brad pitt ) . 
the two men develop a bond , and go out to a bar , and by golly after they get drunk , the two pitiful characters fight . 
how do they come up with this stuff ? 
anyway , their fighting catches other pathetic loser's attention , and a club is formed . 
out of all this mess , there manages to lie a message . 
fincher shows us that society is like robots . 
we work in our jobs doing things step by step , and want out . 
our insanity gets to our brain and makes things worse than they really are , and we blame it on others . 
call me crazy , but this is common knowledge . 
i think fincher was acting as if the film is moodier and more poignant than it really is , which is probably one of the reasons it fails miserably . 
even with two good actors , and a solid actress , they only manage to weaken the story . 
i couldn't help but hide my face in shame when norton beats himself up into a bloody pulp . 
it just shows how desperate the script is for attention . 
i guess brad pitt was right for this role , because i felt like beating him up myself . 
his bothersome and depressing character , made me disgusted at his 20 million fee . 
it only showed me that he was in it for the money and nothing more . 
helena bonham carter however really had no purpose . 
she just popped up on screen , mumbled some lines , smoked and left . 
this continues for what seems like 6 hours . 
the film drags on and my headache gets bigger , while " fight club " nears what i think might be the end . 
unfortunately by then , the film hits rock bottom . 
though the conclusion kept my interest for a mere 5 minutes , it backs down again and continues to move at a snails pace . 
on a side note , the trailer shows the only redeeming elements of the film , that coincidentally lasts the same amount of time that they did on the trailer . 
fincher will hopefully regret making this film or at least learn a lesson . 
concentrating on the atmosphere or a particular key moment , won't do any good if everything else is in need of support . 
also , i'm afraid that immature men might respond to the film's violence . 
the last thing the world needs is people praising a leader of a pointless cult . 
when the film ends , i'm just glad to get home and take some advil . 
you'll either enjoy what the film has to offer , or agree with ed norton when he says " this is so f * * * ing stupid . " 
note to screenwriters and self : when you hit the big time , and the studios come knocking for those scripts that are sitting in your bottom drawer , tell ? em all to hit the road . 
gilligan wrote the arbitrarily-titled home fries ten years ago ; it was shelved until he found success as one of " the took a second look at gilligan's " comedy " - they read it again wearing rose-tinted glasses . 
drew stars as sally , a dim ( but sweet ) , pregnant waitress at a small town burger joint located somewhere in the southern united states . 
the father of her child is dead , the victim of a severe heart attack brought on by sadistic torture from his two stepsons - these flyboys scared him with their low-flying helicopter . 
dorian ( wilson ) and angus ( busey ) were getting even for his philandering ways on behalf of their anguished mother ( o'hara ) . 
trouble is , sally picked up some interference on her drive-thru headset , and angus worries she may have heard conversations that took place in the helicopter prior to the accidental killing . 
so dorian goes undercover as a burger-flipper ; before you can say " with cheese " he falls for the mother-to-be . 
too bad mom and angus have homicidal plans for sally . 
does this sound like a movie you want to see ? 
without a doubt , the best thing about home fries is barrymore ; at the risk of sounding sexist , she's never looked better than here , as a curly redhead with twinkling eyes . 
she is winning in a role that requires her to do absolutely nothing except look apple-cheek cute and gawk at wilson , her real-life boyfriend . 
but the plot and the situations are so off-putting that nothing could save it . 
this movie desperately wants to get mentioned in the same breath as the coen brothers , but home fries' brand of laboured hipness would be foreign to geniuses like ethan and joel . 
it's raising arizona without babies , without charm , without laughs , without human characters , and without intelligence ; worst of all , it's creepy . 
what's funny about threatening to gun down a pregnant woman with a machine gun ? 
 ( unless the woman in question is a spice girl . ) 
take out the helicopters , the quasi-incestuous relationship between the mother and her sons ( it is absolutely illogical , within the movie's framework , that dorian still lives with his mother and brother ) , and the scenes of murder ( attempted and otherwise ) , and what are you left with ? 
the story of a single woman with child who works at a fast food joint ( but dreams of becoming a country singer ) . 
that could turn out to be the most boring movie ever made , but it'd be better than home fries . 
the recent onslaught of film noir that has popped up in multiplexes , with everything ranging from " l . a . confidential " to " palmetto " to " the big lebowski , " has proved to be an artistic commodity for veteran , talented directors . 
with this particular genre , directors are able to collate the sleazy underworld of the lower-class and the glamorous , opulent upper-class , while maintaining the noirish , ambiguous ambience , the staple of film noir . 
 " wild things " could be classified as a black comedy , a sultry film noir or a plain ol' erotic thriller , but the one category it doesn't qualify for is that of a quality motion picture . 
overacted , overwrought and overlong , " wild things " is a confused mess , a movie that wants to have its cake and eat it too . 
with its incalculable twists , turns , more twists and more turns , it soon becomes a tedious exercise in pointlessness . 
in spite of game efforts by kevin bacon and matt dillon , who manage to sustain straight faces throughout the ordeal , " wild things " not once jells in its eroticism , unpredictability , character motivation , sense of the world , plot , etc . there's not one redeeming quality in the picture that is not technical . 
directed by john mcnaughton ( " henry : portrait of a serial killer " ) , " wild things " follows sam lombardo ( matt dillon ) , a hunkish , suburban florida high school teacher who's the dream of every spruced up female in the community . 
particularly one . 
kelly van ryan ( denise richards ) adores him to such extent that she offers to wash his jeep with a partner . 
soon , her tiny shorts are soaked and tells the other girl to take a hike , enabling her to come into his house . 
next thing , she cries rape . 
and the so-called " roller-coaster ride " ensues . 
a second accuser comes front , suzie toller ( neve campbell ) , a booze-drinkin' , tattooed piece of trailer trash that charges lombardo of sexually molesting her , virtually guaranteeing a trial where preposterous confessions , asinine occurrences and laughable courtroom procedures are bound to happen . 
even bill murray gets into the act as lombardo's zany lawyer . 
he wears a fake neck- brace , waves the finger at the other client and infuses the script with some billy murray . 
you can tell mcnaughton knew he had nothing to lose assigning murray to this role . 
as ridiculous as it sounds , he's the most sane character in the movie . 
the community is astonished . 
reporters flee to the scene . 
there's an 8 . 5-million settlement for a libel suit against kelly's mother ( theresa russell ) . 
there's the ambiguous cop ( kevin bacon , who also executive produced ) who sniffs something iffy in this concoction of deceit , murder and lust . 
we , the audience , sniff something not so lustful . 
like so many thrillers these days , including " the usual suspects " and " the game , " " wild things " eschews character for plot . 
mcnaughton knows how to handle the camera , and he keeps the campy fillings of the script flowing with workmanlike ease , as if he knows the territory he's covering is a harmless appetizer to accompany " henry , " a furious , unsettling film directorial tour- de-force . 
george clinton's score is a delight to behold . 
but it's the humans . 
the characters are mere devices for the " nasty " twists . 
what writer stephen peters does not grasp is this becomes tediously uninvolving , almost unbearable , if those who inhibit this twisted world are not interesting , don't feel real or we don't care for them . 
not even the unintentionally funny moments work . 
the people in " wild things " are not so much people as they are caricatures . 
then there's the erotic content , which nearly earned the film an nc-17 , for a sexless , badly edited , poorly lit menage-a-trois . 
and in what has to be one of the most flabbergastingly inept scenes that has graced this country , kevin bacon's member makes a cameo appearance with ten minutes to go . 
ironically , the wildest elements of " wild things " are not wild at all . 
it rocks-actually , lots of rocks fly at us or from us , in slow or fast motion , at several points in the film . 
they seem like dangerous rocks because they kind of twirl through the air instead of just propelling forward , and when they land-once in a while , when we need a break from the space sequences-they cause damage enough to destroy the chrysler building and the like . 
 ( nary a mention of these apocalyptic events is made after they occur . ) 
they also just might be the most interesting element of armageddon , a steroid user's answer to deep impact . 
bruce willis stars as harry stamper , a famed oil-driller commissioned by the white house and nasa to stop a giant asteroid before it travels beyond " zero barrier " and destroys our planet . 
why an oil driller ? 
they require someone experience with deep-core mining to plant a nuclear missile into said asteroid . 
 ( in one unintentionally ( ? ) 
hilarious sequence , nasa asks harry to inspect a deep-core driller they built based on his blueprints ; it is poorly constructed-harry criticizes almost every aspect of it . 
we trust nasa to build space shuttles ? ) 
harry assembles the obligatory " ragtag " bunch of " cowboys " , including a blond guy , a fat guy , a black guy , a wiseass , and the man who is sleeping with his daughter ( affleck ) . 
once they reach space , we experience sequence after sequence of something going wrong-perhaps the fact that they sent a bunch of nincompoops into outer space has something to do with it ; i cannot count the number of times they almost fail the mission on all my fingers and toes . 
whether or not they save the day , i will not reveal . 
nor will you care . 
i will say this : you know you're in trouble when deep impact dwarfs your asteroid movie in terms of emotion and scope . 
willis has barely a chance to come alive ; ditto for affleck . 
their big scenes are mostly reserved for the third act , in a last minute-and futile-attempt to inject warmth into the material . 
steve buscemi's character-the wiseass-is exceptionally problematic . 
 " rockhound " , as he's called , is sarcastic and foolish , so they tape him to a chair , where he spends most of the film . 
so why did they bring him up there to begin with ? 
rather , why write him into the film ? -give 
his almost-witty one-liners to serious willis , who scowls and mopes and demonstrates psychotic tendencies : at one point he chases after affleck with his shotgun for screwing his daughter , firing often and causing significant damage to his oil rig . 
i'm guessing he qualifies under nasa guidelines as someone unfit for space travel , at least in my world where the sky is blue . 
liv tyler is pretty and humourless , as always ; suspiciously , four of her father's band's ( " aerosmith " ) songs grace the soundtrack . 
director michael bay lays the visual and sound effects on thick , like ketchup , eventually drowning the movie on-screen . 
 ( the middle hour is a non-sensical , pyrotechnic assault on the average primate's brain . ) 
whenever someone dies in this movie , a crew member inevitably yells out " we lost ( insert dead person's last name here ) ! " 
i must admit that not once could i distinguish a dead oil-guy-cum-astronaut from a live one , and close-ups of the corpses' faces beneath cracked helmets provided little assistance , as their skin was often covered in fake blood . 
armageddon is not as terrible movie as godzilla . 
it looks nicer , and has fewer plot-holes within its equally ludicrous framework . 
it has a vivid soundmix . 
but at almost two-and-a-half hours , i could not believe how little actually happened over the course of the story . 
the love story has been played up in the ads , perhaps hoping to catch people before they recover from titanic-fever . 
bollocks ! 
the lovers in the film are miles apart throughout-erase all thoughts of nude sketching or car-sex and replace them with obligatory shots of liv tyler tearing up while ben affleck dicks around in a moon-crawler . 
remember a little film called jaws ? 
in this film , three independent-minded men suddenly found themselves on a fishing boat in pursuit of a deadly shark . 
they didn't much like each other at first ; eventually , they started to respect one another . 
one of jaws' great scenes involved the would-be-ahabs drinking and singing songs and telling stories . 
this is the sort of male-bonding foreign to bay or his producer , jerry bruckheimer , who throw too many characters into the mix and expect we'll care about them on the grounds that the world is about to end . 
not once do we get the feeling that these characters are even acquaintances-i'd be surprised if these actors bothered to introduce themselves to one another before " action " was called . 
a male friend who loved the film suggested to me that perhaps i cannot relate to a bunch of men who don't bare their souls , who believe in dying macho concepts like heroism and a kind of chest-beating bravery . 
to this , i will respond that the boys in armageddon are neither heroic , nor brave , nor smart , even : this team couldn't build a birdhouse . 
and if i get no respect for disliking a movie with all the synthetic feeling of a trailer-a trailer for a movie written by a team of body-builders and greeting card authors-i've never been a prouder wimp my whole life . 
there's a 1 , 000-foot tidal wave at the end of deep impact . 
i'd say it pretty accurately represents the towering flood of the last two years worth of disaster movies , which are getting more irwin allen- esque with every release . 
the early wave of this revival , while just as cheesy and laughable , at least knew to include thrills every five to ten minutes . 
deep impact tries to disguise itself as a human drama , with endless filler comprised of disaster prevention plans the country keeps taking . 
the repeating cycle is as follows -- the president ( morgan freeman ) will go on tv and tell the country that there's a remote chance a comet will strike the earth , but that the nation's crack scientists and astronauts have some brilliant plan to stop the problem . 
then we get to see the plan in action , in some sequence utterly lacking suspense . 
the mission will barely fail , and freeman will tell the country that the comet is still headed toward earth , and there's a remote chance it will strike , but that the nation's crack scientists and astronauts have some brilliant plan to stop the problem . 
it goes on and on throughout the movie , but every time freeman goes on tv , we know his plan is going to fail . 
how do we know this ? 
because we've seen the tv ads for deep impact , ads that feature freeman telling the nation that " the comet is still headed right for us " and show disaster shots of the comet striking earth and the giant tidal wave spreading . 
ladies and gentlemen , that is the movie . 
successful disaster movies have the main disaster toward the beginning and more little disasters that follow , but deep impact saves its one disaster for the end and discloses all in its 30-second tv spots . 
television is what's wrong with deep impact . 
the main character , played by tea leoni , is a low-level broadcast journalist for msnbc ( and that's the mere tip of the product-placement iceberg ) who stumbles upon a huge government conspiracy . 
she thinks it's an instance of an ex-secretary of something or other ( james cromwell ) resigning because of a mistress , and that maybe he took the fall for the president in the same area . 
when she goes nosing around cromwell , he begs her to keep it under wraps . 
 " i know you're just a reporter , but you used to be a human being . " 
she figures out what's really going on after getting roughed up by some fbi men and doing an internet search , where all good journalists learn the difference between a mistress and an extinction- level comet . 
upon a top-secret meeting with president freeman , leoni agrees to keep the story under wraps until the president can hold a press conference , at which she gets to ask the first question . 
and everyone knows , if you get to ask the first question , baby you're a star . 
leoni ends up in the anchor chair , broadcasting every step of the comet's collision course with earth . 
and i'm sure it's comforting for her to know that , even though the world's ending in a matter of months , she's a cable news personality . 
so there she is , narrating the six-astronaut mission to blow the comet up . 
such personalities as robert duvall , jon favreau and blair underwood cash their paychecks and go through the motions of this dragged-out process . 
but as anyone who's seen the commercials knows , the astronauts fail . 
they only end up breaking the comet into two pieces , which means even more destruction to the earth . 
yeah , thanks , nasa . 
that's when freeman has to come on tv for the last time and say goodbye to all the people who aren't picked to live in the missouri cave site for two years . 
they even have animals , two by two , ready to climb into the cave . 
if the focus had been on people living inside these caves after the world had been destroyed , deep impact could have been a far more interesting movie . 
instead we watch as a lovestruck elijah wood defies all odds to chase down his young wife , while people pack the highways out of town . 
the reasoning is , of course , that if a comet is going to strike , they might as well be out in some scenic rural location . 
and , amusingly , the highway is spotted with people in u-haul trucks . 
i'm sure it's comforting to know that , even though the world's ending in a matter of minutes , the u-haul people are doing the most business of their lives . 
 " there will be another , " the ads for this sequel proclaimed , and why not ? 
true , brandon lee is dead , but there would be no reason for him to appear in a followup to 1994's the crow , anyway . 
the idea of spinning artist james o'barr's original comic book series into a sequel franchise revolves around the notion that a different startled soul would come back from the dead in each movie , taking its own righteous vengeance against the world . 
given that basic framework , the story could move in any number of directions . 
of course , it doesn't . 
stubbornly , the crow : city of angels backtracks to the beginning of the previous film , when lee's eric draven found himself drawn back out of his grave to do a charles bronson on the thugs who tortured him and his girlfriend to death . 
i remember the first film primarily as a harrowing exercise in brutality . 
in flashback , we see the most excruciating crimes exacted on eric and his lover , and then we watch in real-time as eric pays each perpetrator back in kind . 
it's loud and repetitive , true , a sadist's delight -- but it's also horrifying and fascinating . 
city of angels gives us more of the same , but less skillfully . 
there's an audience guaranteed for a film like this , although bad reviews and poor word-of-mouth will likely ensure that it won't be much of a success . 
in fact , miramax subsidiary dimension films was so fearful of the critical reaction to this picture that reviewers were shut out of advance screenings . 
 ( i've never understood the reasoning behind this tactic , since good notices have never been key to the success of movies like the crow . ) 
so much for any confidence in the worthiness of their followup . 
this time , ashe ( french-accented actor vincent perez ) is retrieved from his watery death ( he and his young son were shackled together , shot , and then thrown off a pier ) by the crow who serves as his link between the worlds of the living and the dead . 
perez might have some screen presence if he's given something to do with himself , but here he's simply thrown in front of the camera as a pretty face . 
at first , he's shivery and frightened , but he quickly recovers from the shock of his own death and becomes a badass biker from beyond the grave . 
he's befriended by sarah ( mia kirshner ) , presumably an older version of the child who narrated the first film . 
kirshner , so beguiling in exotica , is here an exquisitely photographed blank . 
tattooed with angels' wings , sarah is just about as lovely as women come , but she serves no purpose , not even as seductress . 
the gang of punks who killed ashe are ostensibly commanded by judah ( richard brooks ) , but a far more interesting choice as leader would have been iggy pop , who plays a gaunt fellow named curve . 
iggy , all bones , veins , and drawl , is the only one who seems to have shared in the aesthetic of ruin that defines this film . 
like all good things here , he's dispatched too soon and without much imagination . 
in the meantime , we're subjected to tedious glimpses of judah's compound , where bondage is the order of the day and hot wax is poured over naked bodies in s&m fantasies that would seem shy of the cutting edge even if they weren't distinctly secondhand . 
even the soundtrack is tired . 
more than anything i've seen from hollywood lately , city of angels smacks baldly of product -- it's a movie with a lousy script but a great look . 
critics have been quick to fault the direction of mtv veteran tim pope , but his work isn't that bad per se . 
he's got a good eye , and some intriguing visual ideas -- if anything , this movie has a few too many scenes of ridiculously striking imagery . 
his major stylistic failing is that he can't seem to direct an action scene , and the quick , nonsensical cutting that ensues is reminiscent of a low budget kung fu movie . 
but as director , he must also shoulder the blame for the little screenplay that wasn't , the performers who couldn't , and an apparent lack of ideas on the parts of everyone involved . 
who bought david s . goyer's anemic script , anyway ? 
the producers of this crow were either too dim to realize their story was doomed to be a hollow rehash , or too cynical to figure their audience would know the difference . 
late in down to you , the lead female character ( julia stiles ) states her greatest fear is having an " artificial conversation " with her boyfriend ( freddie prinze jr . ) . 
the irony of this statement will not be lost on audience members who have not yet walked out , fallen asleep , or otherwise given up on this pathetic attempt at romantic comedy . 
the film is a multi-million dollar testament to everything artificial . 
filled with characters , motivation , plot and dialogue that ring fake and shallow at every step this is an unquestionable disaster . 
prinze plays a college student intent on playing the field until he falls for stiles' freshman co-ed . 
at first the movie seems to be an attempt to string along scenes with the sole purpose of out-doing the previous in how " cute " it can be . 
the happy couple " psychoanalyze " each other ; they pick out a song because , as prinze's dj mother ( lucie arnez ) explains , every couple needs a song ; he smells her shampoo ; she scratches his chest in the morning to let him know she wants to make love . 
then , in standard romantic comedy style , things fall apart . 
why ? 
well , because they have to . 
otherwise the couple can't make up and live ( presumably ) happily ever after . 
down to you exists outside the realm of normal logic . 
scenes do not connect to each other and it often seems to be attempting some sort of surrealism , but this is handled so poorly that everything comes off random and stupid instead . 
a picnic scene involving the six key characters is just bizarre , not only for the stretched logic of these people hanging out together , or even knowing each other , but mostly because an unusual amount of screen time is dedicated to a goat . 
the supporting characters are remarkably flat , and insultingly ridiculous as well . 
stiles' best friend ( rosario dawson ) is a pot head , prinze's roommate ( shawn hatosy ) is a girl crazy fool who can't meet women , and then there are the porn stars ( zak orth and selma blair ) . 
he is one of those famous porn stars who is frequently interviewed on television , does the college lecture circuit , and stars in high budget costume epic porns that are shot on film . 
you know , the average porn star . 
the costume epic idea gives him a reason to appear in a different ridiculous outfit everytime he's on screen , the porn angle exists just so there can be a couple of stupid sex jokes . 
she is a porn star mostly so we know she's slutty , so her very existence will make stiles jealous and prinze tempted . 
attempts at drama ( which means julia is going to cry ) include a pregnancy scare and the big break up . 
these characters are so insipid only the most forgiving viewer would be manipulated by these weak scenes . 
what happened here ? 
the cast is full of likable , promising , young actors ( stiles especially seems to be going places ) . 
writer/director kris isacsson has simply given them material so weak not even seasoned pros could pull it off . 
in fact the whole film feels like a reworking of last year's extremely unpleasant the story of us , for teen audiences . 
the direction is film-school-grad obvious . 
it's stylish in a hugely self conscious way which throws in split screen , a pointless parody of " cops , " characters walking into the flashbacks of other characters , and a hilariously cheesy airport meeting between prinze and stiles where all the extras move in fast motion while the couple moves in extreme slow motion . 
plus , the whole story is told flashback style , narrated by prinze and stiles directly addressing the camera . 
this is the second film in a row ( following wing commander ) starring freddie prinze jr . which should have premiered on the aisles of the local blockbuster but was likely saved from that fate due to the fluke success of she's all that . 
if he doesn't start making better choices fast his future films won't be so lucky . 
for better or worse , the appearance of basic instinct in the movie marketplace gave the greenlight to a whole slew of overheated , oversexed , underwritten thrillers . 
apparently not having joe eszterhas as the writer doesn't change a thing , since body of evidence wasn't written by him , but has a puzzling eszterhas-ish presence all over it . 
in other words , it's a ) really dirty and b ) really , really stupid . 
madonna ( first warning sign ) stars in body of evidence as a woman who has piles of money and no apparent job ; she lives on a houseboat and likes to parade around semi-naked , presumably for the edification of the shrimp . 
she's been accused of having murdered an older man who was her lover . 
already two classic examples of hollywood sexism are in effect -- the first being that any woman in a movie cannot be sexual unless she's under thirty ( or at least looks it ) , and that they usually only exist for the sake of studs or filthy rich older men . 
what's worse is that the movie confirms all the above , and wallows in them as well . 
madonna's character is accused of forcing sex on the old goat when she knew darned well he had a heart condition . 
 ( and yes , there are the obligatory cracks from the cops about how at least he died happy . 
this movie leave no scummy stone unturned . ) 
anyway . willem dafoe ( very good but completely wasted ) also stars as the lawyer who is doomed to run afoul of madonna's sexuality . 
how do we know this ? 
because his character is set up with the token wife and kids . 
how obvious is it that he's gonna cheat on her and have to fess everything up ? 
and get kicked out of the house ? 
and get welcomed back anyway ? 
don't skip to the end yet ; we're just getting warmed up . 
dafoe and madonna have a lot of sex in this movie . 
most of it is about as erotic as open-heart surgery , since it involves such goodies as hot candlewax ( always the kink of choice among screenwriters who don't know the first thing about * really * kinky sex ) and smashed light bulbs . 
don't ask . 
another thing that people are starting to realize about explicit sex in movies is that unless it is critically important to the story , it's insanely dull . 
what's worse is that body of evidence is dull * everywhere * , not just in the sex scenes . 
the stuff in the courtroom is recycled ninth-hand from other bad courtroom drama scenes . 
the thriller business itself is ridiculous -- it involves nasal spray bottles and drugs , and juergen prochnow as a surly doctor . 
and the ending -- another homage to eszterhas , maybe ? 
-- is one of those endings where you can almost see the exact * frame * where one of the five or six various endings to this mess was spliced in . 
the director is uli edel , all the more disappointing since he also directed the elegiac and powerful last exit to brooklyn and christiane f . everyone has to eat , i guess , but this isn't a meal ticket , it's leftovers . 
it was with great anticipation that i sat down to view braveheart last week as it premiered on american cable . 
the academy award winning film had been highly acclaimed . 
it also featured the music of one of my favorite film composers , james horner . 
what i was in for was a disappointing and overlong film which was anything but the best picture of 1995 . 
what drags braveheart down is its screenplay . 
it abounds with high production values : john toll's award-winning cinematography ( which also graced edward zwick's 1994 legends of the fall ) , a gorgeous score by horner , and the sort of logistics that make you wish assistant directors were household names . 
but this does not save a misguided script . 
the film wishes to paint its central character as a hero , but the viewer's only response to his " heroism " is intellectual : william wallace ( producer-director mel gibson ) is fighting for freedom and against tyranny , so we have to root for him . 
but wallace's actions paint a different story . 
he speaks of freedom and acts of vengeance . 
though one intellectually realizes wallace is on the right side , the film paints an unconvincing emotional portait , in which wallace is just not as bad as the english king . 
wallace speaks of freedom , but his acts point toward vengeance . 
after kicking the english out of scotland , he decides to invade england . 
this is evident of a " spartacus complex " , and this example applies both historically and cinematically . 
the historical spartacus at one point moved from liberating slaves to sacking roman cities ; the film spartacus , like braveheart , has high production values and competent performaces and is dragged down by an awful screenplay . 
it is a shame that such an excellent score is part of such a terrible film . 
horner's score tries to make emotional connection , but the performances and the script do not help . 
gibson portrays wallace in such a way that the audience cannot relate to him or identify with him . 
this drags down any emotional connection to the film's plot , and turns three hours into a total waste of time . 
susan granger's review of " the watcher " ( universal ) 
just what we need : another lurid , trashy serial killer saga . 
this time , keanu reeves plays an elusive homicidal maniac who engages in a gruesome ticking-clock cat-and-mouse game with james spader , a burnt-out fbi agent who has suffered a traumatic nervous breakdown after too many years on the job with the lapd . 
to taunt spader , who has relocated to chicago , reeves packs up his trusty piano wire and moves too . 
before long , he starts mailing photographs of the lonely , unsuspecting young women who are his intended windy city victims , challenging spader , along with the chicago police department , to stop him within 24 hours before he strikes again . 
in the midst of this murderous frenzy , there's spader's psychologist , played by marisa tomei , who is even less convincing as a medical professional than jennifer lopez in " the cell . " 
writers david elliot , clay ayers and darcy meyers , along with first-time director joe charbanic ( helmer of music videos for reeves' band dogstar ) , dwell on the warped thrill of the methodology and the chase , revealing , early on , exactly whodunit since the killer says he and the cop " need each other to give meaning to our lives . " 
plus , as reeves explains , " we're all stacked right on top of each other , but we don't notice each other any more . " 
after that , it's all sound effects and tricky camera-work , along with a muddled , discordant soundtrack . 
james spader's acting technique can be described as 'wooden deadpan' while keanu reeves maintains his perpetually monotone 'dude' persona which sometimes works , sometimes doesn't . 
chris ellis , as spader's self-important colleague , is the only cast member who manages to be convincing . 
on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " the watcher " is an appallingly awful , amateurish 2 . the real torture is watching it . 
ahh yes . 
the teenage romance . 
an attractive young cast is pitted into an unlikely scenario that could only happen in the movies , and in the end , the guy always gets the girl . 
and with the arrival of the breakout hit `she's all that' last year ( followed by a long catalogue of imitators including `10 things i hate about you' and `drive me crazy' ) , the genre previously on life support is once again a hot commodity . 
along now comes `down to you' . 
the folks at miramax are obviously trying to capitalize on the rabid `she's all that' craze with their latest project , which has the studdly freddie prinze jr . attached and all . 
only `down to you' doesn't have the ? unlikely scenario' mentioned above . 
it is an extraordinarily ordinary romance - a dull , unattractive teen comedy that sticks to the boring game plan that we're accustomed to . 
this is the kind of romance that only giggly 12-year old girls will find convincing . 
in strictly textbook fashion , college sophomore and aspiring chef al ( prinze jr . ) meets freshman artist imogen ( julia stiles ) . 
they hit it off like a couple can only in the movies . 
from here , it's the standard boy-meets-girl , boy-loses-girl , boy-drinks-entire-bottle-of-shampoo-and-may-or-may-not-get-girl-back story . 
the plot is conveniently assembled to suit the requirements of the main characters , who are frequently taking part in activities that . . . . 
well , only happen in the movies . 
fortunately , the cast of `down to you' has a certain appeal . 
freddie prinze jr . and julia stiles are an adorable couple , and when on screen together , they radiate the sort of warmth and charisma that the movie should have centered around . 
zak orth , as the newly realized porn star monk , shows an unmistakable flair with handling all of the film's intelligent dialogue . 
rounding out the impressive ensemble of young talent are shawn hatosy ( `the faculty' ) , selma blair ( `cruel intentions' ) and ashton kutcher ( tv's `that 70's shows' ) . 
even the fonz himself - henry winkler , the epitome of teenage angst and nostalgia - has a welcome role as al's dad , the host of the popular cooking program `chef ray' . 
maybe the concept of `down to you' looked good on paper to draw such a crowd . 
as a feature film , however , the finished product is bland and tasteless fluff with only an occasional whiff of cuteness to keep the gears from stopping entirely . 
perhaps worst of all , `down to you' is not funny . 
the jokes are drawn from obvious sources and the resulting humor is banal and uninspired . 
the characters on screen , often laughing at each other's goofy/embarrassing antics , seemed far more amused than the audience . 
even the giggly 12-year old girls had grown restless toward the end as they waited impatiently for the formula to run it's course . 
the one mildly clever segment featured winkler and prinze jr . in a fantasy sequence called `cooks' , a `cops' take-off in which the father and son would storm houses and cook a decent meal for ? needy' families ( with the assistance of a fully-armed swat team , of course ) . 
when this is the highlight reel , you know the remaining film could leave something to be desired . 
in order to make a teen comedy work , you've got to have characters that show something by way of depth and identity . 
`10 things i hate about you' actually featured characters who were more than walking flashcards , and the result was refreshing . 
no such luck with `down to you' . 
it's just a textbook romance where , despite absurd circumstances , everything is bound to work out in the end . 
and at the end of the whole clich ? d ordeal , the nicest thing you could possibly say would be ` . . . . 
only in the movies' . 
 " virus " is the type of cliched , vacuous film that has been recylcled so many times before that you wonder why anyone would even bother putting work into making it . 
strangely enough , on the same mid-january weekend last year , another film was released like this , " deep rising , " about an ugly monster on a cruise liner . 
prior movies with the almost exact same storyline include 1989's " leviathan , " 1989's " deep star six , " and all four " alien " pictures . 
 " virus , " in comparison , is a servicable thriller , well-made and produced , but since it doesn't include one moment of even remote originality or intelligence , it sinks under the weight of the water that the film was shot on . 
based on a series of comic books , " virus " concerns the crew of an ocean salvage tugboat , which becomes extremely damaged during a violent typhoon . 
after discovering that the boat is slowly sinking , ( un ) lucky for them , a huge ocean vessel that appears to be dead in the water turns up within the confines of their radar screen . 
once the team reaches the russian ship , they go on board to find that the place is seemingly deserted . 
after turning the power back on , however , there gradually are signs that something else is on the ship , and the electrical equipment is oddly working by itself . 
one survivor finally does turn up , nadia ( joanna pacula ) , who informs the suicidal and stern captain ( donald sutherland ) and one of the crew , kit foster ( jamie lee curtis ) , that a mysterious alien life form hit the santi mir space station which then was transported down to the ship , taking over the minds of all of the electrical machines and thinking that humans are viruses that should be completely wiped out . 
if " virus " sounds like all of the previously mentioned movies , you're correct . 
although the technical artistry is fairly impressive to bring the mechanical creature to life , the film itself doesn't appear to have a brain in its head . 
the film sticks so close to the worn-out conventions of the " creature " genre that it is amazing anyone would spend the money and time filming it when they could be making an original film . 
the actors are all very good and have all proven their acting abilities in the past , but they are sorely wasted here and do not really even have characters to play . 
in her second return to horror in the last year , jamie lee curtis once again proves to be a strong and resourceful heroine , but that is about it . 
although 1998's " halloween : h20 " was also a disappointment , at least she was given a few scenes to develop a character , unlike here . 
donald sutherland has fallen on hard times recently by starring in thoroughly disposable films , such as 1994's " the puppet masters , " although i just watched him in the superb 1978 sci-fi classic " invasion of the body snatchers , " where he was fabulous . 
the last of the three top-billers is william baldwin , but it is fairly hard to say if he is good or not in the picture , since he has nothing to do . 
basically , " virus " is another one of those films where a group of people walk around and investigate a space ship/ocean liner/haunted house until the deadly and equally grotesque and slimy creature pops up and kills them one-by-one . 
it is not the worst of its type , but it is far from one of the best , and when exactly are studios going to give up recycling such shameless and overdone plot gimmicks such as this ? 
as long as some of them keep making money , i suspect the answer is never . 
over 40 years ago , a japanese production company called toho introduced the land of the rising sun to gojira , a reptilian creature of immense proportions created by mankind's nuclear testing . 
partly flight of fancy , partly commentary on the exploitation of atomic power and weaponry , gojira emerged from the ocean to terrorize tokyo . 
a year later , gojira was marketed to the united states by adding three things : a new name , a dubbed english track , and raymond burr . 
as godzilla , the film took on the rest of the world . 
thirty years later , toho remade the classic film and once again took it to the american market by adding the same three things ( yes , including raymond burr ) and called it godzilla 1985 . 
now it's 14 years after toho's remake , and director roland emmerich has allowed the giant lizard to make an american first run . 
in emmerich's godzilla , matthew broderick plays dr . niko tatopoulos , a biologist who is called in to join other scientists in the south pacific already studying the existence of a radiation-induced super mutant which leaves footprints the size of livingrooms . 
when the mutant reptile suddenly appears out of the hudson river , tatopoulos and the rest of the team relocate themselves back to the states . 
meanwhile , tatopoulos's college girlfriend , audrey timmonds ( maria pitillo ) , works in new york city as an assistant to a big-time news reporter . 
she'd like to be a reporter herself , and when godzilla comes ashore , she figures this is her big break . 
of course , with the big guy running amok in the city , niko and audrey are bound to cross paths , and are joined by victor " animal " palotti ( hank azaria ) , audrey's trusty cameraman friend , and phillipe roche ( jean reno ) , an operative for the french government , whose nuclear testing started the whole problem in the first place . 
together they attempt to find and destroy the surprisingly elusive godzilla . 
with the resources of the most cutting edge special effects houses and the clout of one of the nation's premiere movie production companies , one would think emmerich could make a film truly deserving of the name godzilla . 
he didn't . 
right up there with the lost world , godzilla is one of the biggest disappointments in recent cinematic history . 
the plot is pretty much what we expect : the big dinosaur-like creature comes out of the water and starts smashing new york city , and it's up to our heroes to figure out why this thing is on its rampage and how it can be stopped , while the military makes futile attempts to bring the creature down . 
the script , however , is painfully bad . 
it's fraught with lines so corny , they don't even belong in b-movies , and includes many character actions which make you think , " you idiot , " or " you stupid girl . " 
i suppose when you've got a movie with a giant lizard loose in new york , any other semblance of reality goes out the window as well . 
why is it that godzilla topples some buildings by merely brushing against them , but is conveniently able to leap atop others ? 
why do helicopters have to follow godzilla by flying dangerously between buildings where they can lose sight of him , when they could more easily keep track of him by flying a little higher and in a straight line ? 
why do sidewinder missiles , which have small explosive warheads , blow up entire buildings when they miss godzilla ? 
why is a mission to bomb madison square garden carried out by three f-18 fighter-bombers , when flights of such aircraft are always comprised of multiples of two ? 
okay , maybe the last one was a bit nit-picky , but hey , i was on a roll . 
broderick is usually a good actor , but in this film he's weighed down by an unexciting character and an atrocious screenplay which seem to fight against him every step of the way . 
hank azaria does what he can , but don't expect to see development of any of the promise he showed in the birdcage . 
like broderick's , azaria's character is quite simply lacking in color . 
what really annoyed me was maria pitillo , who actually takes the bad script and makes it worse with her acting . 
casting must have been asleep on this one . 
the one bright spot here is jean reno , who oddly enough seems to fit well into a role which is often comedic , quite unlike what we've seem him do in the past . 
although his character is contradictory to the unfolding disaster , reno brings a style to the role of phillipe which makes him enjoyable . 
unfortunately , the same cannot be said of the other incongruities . 
the entire feel of the movie is tongue-in-cheek , and seems to pay comical homage to a dozen or so films that have come before it . 
this results in a significant amount of parody , which contrasts sharply with the threat of the monster , and ends up just producing a mess . 
most of the characters seem to be there for comic relief , and almost none are smart enough for the audience to take seriously . 
although emmerich obviously wanted to make a fun action picture , what good is it to sink millions into a cgi creature whose ferocity is undermined by the humans he threatens ? 
if we can't take the characters seriously , the threat they face is an empty one because we simply don't care what happens to them . 
godzilla simply pulls too many punches in its attempt to be a film more light-hearted than it should be . 
far be it from me to want to see more carnage in the theaters , but here's a behemoth running through the city ! 
there's bound to be a lot of casualties , but instead godzilla is afflicted with the after-school g . i . 
joe cartoon syndrome , where almost everyone seems to get out of harm's way just in time . 
in a couple of scenes , godzilla briefly breathes fire . 
none of the characters even remark upon this ability , nor is it used to any particular advantage by the filmmakers . 
it's as if the special effects people just wanted to show that yes , godzilla can do this , just like in the old movie . 
consider another punch pulled . 
through creative script writing , you can make a sequel out of just about any movie , but the final scene in this one doesn't just leave the door open , it opens into a hallway leading directly into a room where godzilla ii is waiting patiently . 
it made me want to gag . 
emmerich should have done away with 90% of the humor and in-jokes and played this one as a straight action film . 
with an intelligently written screenplay , godzilla could have been so much more . 
however , by confusing the viewer with a ton of add-ins and parodies , the movie ends up being something that just doesn't work . 
now if they only had raymond burr . . . . 
before the remake of psycho appears , we've got to suffer through this remake of an earlier hitchcock film , dial m for murder . 
as usual , hollywood has filled it with glitz and big name stars , and it all amounts to a loud sounding nothing . 
the film opens with emily ( paltrow ) and david ( viggo mortensen ) 'having fun' in an loft apartment . 
the problem is , paltrow is married to stephen ( douglas ) , who is not too happy when he discovers this affair . 
if i was paltrow , though , i'd definitely go with mortensen . 
less wrinkles . 
anyhow , stephen approaches david with an interesting proposition : he'll pay him to kill his lovely wife . 
mortensen agrees , but the murder goes awry , and the twists keep on coming as the film progresses . 
unfortunately , the film dosen't progress very fast . 
in fact , it moves like a tortoise with arthritis ( read : very , very s-l-o-w . ) 
the plot moves nowhere fast , and only becomes exciting in very short bursts . 
not too good for a 'thriller . ' 
also , the performances , apart from douglas , are below par . 
paltrow , showing immense talent in se7en ( 1995 ) and sliding doors ( 1997 ) is strangely stilted , even unconvincing , in this movie . 
mortensen is a little bit better , coming across as a younger douglas , but his role isn't meaty enough to show all his talent . 
which leaves douglas to waltz away with the film , which is does . 
however , i doubt douglas finds it very hard to play a stogie smoking , drinking womanizer with a creepy underside . 
also popping up in the film is david suchet , playing a shifty looking detective . 
again , it's not a character we're seeing on the screen , it's david suchet . 
the director , who bought us the fugitive , piles on all the flash techniques , such as zoom-in's , quick cuts , etc . the lighting is also interesting . 
however , looks can't save this film from the depths of mediocre , and the film seemed to work better in a single set anyway . 
the screenplay is o . k , but there's some hackneyed sub-plot about douglas being a ruthless player on wall street ( again ) and the ending is surprisingly stupid and cliched . 
the characters also make incredibly dumb moves , especially paltrow , and stephen appears to lose all intelligence in the last reel . 
with a combination of no tension , drama , or decent characters , a perfect murder is a failure all round , and an incredible disappointment . 
there are a few bright moments , but they are far and few between . 
the last thing a thriller should be is boring , and although the film just barely manages to keep your interest thanks to michael douglas , you wouldn't be missing anything if you decided not to watch a perfect murder . 
overall rating= 
review by david wilcock ? 1998 
 " you know , for kids " - norville barnes 
coinciding with the emerging popularity of movies that deal with anything related to serial killers , relentless , 1989 low budget thriller about lapd detective sam dietz , played by character actor leo rossi , spawned three more sequels . 
relentless 3 , third in the row , features sam dietz again , but this time detective , who had to catch vicious serial killer in his very first case , doesn't want to deal with similar line of work . 
divorced , demoralised and transferred , he reluctantly returns to his old post when los angeles becomes a hunting ground for another serial killer , and evidence indicate connection with one of dietz's old cases . 
to make things even more interesting , it seems that the killer deliberately stages murders in order to bring dietz to the investigation . 
fans of the british tv films and mini-series like prime suspect or cracker would probably see a lot of similarities relentless series of movies . 
they both feature vicious psychopathic killers , yet also give a lot of , usually depressive , details about chief investigator's private lives . 
this one isn't an exception , but similarities with british television are only in content . 
the execution and style is different , which makes this film mediocre piece of entertainment at best . 
useless , gratuitous erotica also doesn't help either , obviously making this film longer than it should be . 
the actors are good , though - leo rossi is fine as usual , and william forsythe plays one of more compelling villains in his career . 
signy coleman as dietz's love interest , is , on the other hand , quite miscast . 
but she won't have to worry about it in the future career , since relentless 3 wasn't supposed to be anybody's finest moment anyway . 
edward burns tackles his third picture with no looking back , and like his previous two , it is a working-class relationship picture . 
however , unlike his previous work , the film dwells on a more personal story , and with a female protagonist . 
and in no looking back , he stumbles , making a slow , boring film without the spark that enlivened his previous work . 
claudia ( lauren holly ) is a small town waitress who is feeling stifled by her life . 
she's at a turning point in her life , and feels as if she's going nowhere . 
her boyfriend , michael ( jon bon jovi ) , is broke and in a dead end job . 
if she were to marry him , she'd never get a chance to escape this town . 
enter charlie ( edward burns ) , claudia's old flame . 
he skipped town several years before , without any explanations . . . even 
for claudia . 
he has come back to town to see her , and suddenly she is torn . 
should she stay with stable michael , and never escape her hometown . . . or 
should she ignore her instincts and fall for charlie again . 
part of the answer lies in the character of her mother ( blythe danner ) , who fell for the wrong man . . . and has spent her life pining for claudia's father to return . 
now it seems that claudia is about to make the same mistakes . 
at only a little past ninety minutes , no looking back is rather short for its genre . 
unfortunately , it seems much much longer . 
the storyline is simple and uninspired , and there's a lack of energy to the whole proceedings , which makes the entire drama rather tedious . 
edward burns makes a misstep by casting himself in the crucial role as the egomaniacal old flame . 
there's no one to restrain his ego , which reigns unchecked . 
he walks into the room and lauren holly swoons . . . yeah , 
right . 
lauren holly does what she can with her central character . 
but we never understand why her character makes such pathetically bad decisions . . . and 
we never really care . 
bon jovi is the only sympathetic character in the whole movie . 
his acting talents are much greater than they might seem , but he is given a mostly bland and ineffective role to work with . 
there's not much to recommend in no looking back . 
it's not that the film is bad . . . it's 
simply boring . 
there's no zest in any aspect of the film , and no reason to spend ninety minutes watching it . 
i don't expect much from eddie murphy these days . 
for the past four years , the gods of cinema--or the expansive payrolls of studio conglomerates--have allowed him to make one bad movie after another . 
such films as metro , doctor dolittle , holy man , life , and bowfinger have reduced a once great comedic persona to a living and breathing washed-up hack performing as a studio puppet for 20th century fox and universal pictures . 
the biggest shame to fall on his shoulders is his newest film , nutty professor ii : the klumps . 
the klumps once again revisits the life of sherman klump , an overweight university science professor looking for love in all the wrong places . 
sherman has just invented a new " youth drink " that enables man or beast to become younger for a short period of time . 
janet jackson is the love interest who chooses the lovable sherman for a soul mate rather than excel at her career as a university professor ( and for the most ridiculous reasons ) . 
with love on his mind , sherman is determined to rid himself of his alter ego , buddy love from the first professor , who still resides with vigor inside his psyche and causes sherman to act like a bad imitation of vince vaughn from swingers . 
with some convoluted mumbo-jumbo about dna extraction , sherman extracts the " buddy love " link in his dna and smartly deposits buddy into a handy-dandy lab beaker . 
but one night , the beaker is knocked over and buddy love is regenerated . . . 
because every movie like this needs an unnecessary villain to thwart the good guy . 
then the klump family , all played by eddie murphy , step in for some comedic relief involving old people having sex , flabby breasts , a slew of fart and dick jokes , and enough fat people jokes that i lost count after the first thirty minutes . 
and did i mention the part where larry miller gets anally raped by an overgrown hamster ? 
the movie finally dissolves into a really bad hallmark family special about realizing who you are and what you can be in this world -- with enough soft lighting and people on the verge of tears in every scene . 
pure and simple , the klumps is a failure . 
its script was handled by not one but five screenwriters , and it really shows during the awkward transitions between scenes . 
any sense of story and plot were lost in the rewrite process . 
it's more discerning to learn that chris weitz and paul weitz , the team behind one of the funniest films of the last decade , american pie , have their names stamped to this trash . 
hey guys - quick note - keep this movie off of your resumes . 
the characterization of sherman's family , the klumps , is one of the most ignorant stereotypes of a black family i have ever seen in cinema . 
everyone member of the family is a large person who wipes the bins clean at a local buffet restaurant like pigs at a trough . 
the grandma is an oversexed fiend who constantly talks of ways to pleasure her man and her sagging breasts . 
the father is gruff , is fired from a blue-collar job , is sexually inadequate , and cannot communicate with his family about his feelings . 
the mother is ignorant of all the negativity around her and seems to hold no opinion about anything or anyone . 
the brother is silent and brooding and resembles the ice cube gangster character from boyz in the hood . 
sherman himself is terribly insecure and never conveys anything for the audience to become attached to . 
but the main problem with the film is its inability to create any type of convincing conversational or situational comedy . 
the family scenes from the first nutty professor worked so well because their conversations were short and direct . 
and you got the feeling that these crass people couldn't act like this all the time . 
the sequel does the reverse and drives the negatives of the klumps right in to the hilt , making the first five minutes of their interaction enjoyable and the last 55 or so unbearable and pathetic . 
after a while , their conversations just become a barrage of frustrated anger tinged with indecency and overworked premises that end up drawing energy away from any type of empathy one might feel for the central themes of the story . 
its also a damn shame that the makeup magic of rick baker -- who worked on the original nutty professor and won an academy award for his work on an american werewolf in london -- and amazing digital special effects that enabled murphy to interact with himself in such beautiful motions are built around such a lame story line . 
even the best effects can't seem to save the most pathetic of movies these days . 
now that i think about it , the worst thing about this film has to be all the money that it will make . 
people will be lined up around the block for it . 
the studios will concoct the a sequel for release in the summer of 2002 . 
eddie murphy will be signed up to take not just one role or five roles , but he'll play every character in the movie . 
i just can't wait to see eddie murphy in a love scene with himself . 
brian de palma , the director who bought us carrie , dressed to kill and mission : impossible is back , and has bought all his technical expertise with him . 
sadly , he forget to bring a good story and believable characters . 
nic cage plays rick santaro , a fast talking cop who is watching a boxing match with his friend commander kevin dunne ( sinise . ) 
an assassination takes place , and santaro tries to peace together how it took place , trying to work out the roles of the people involved in this conspiracy . 
the film uses flashbacks and video cameras to bring the mystery together . 
however , the film doesn't keep the mystery for long , and once the big 'secret' is out concerning kevin dunne , the film is at a dead end . 
although there are some fantastic shots by de palma , including a 15 minute steadicam shot at the start of the film , halfway through the film drops dead . 
the problem is that de palma doesn't have a strong story or characters to work with . 
he tries to offshoot this with flashy camera techniques , but pretty soon this has no effect on the audience , and i quickly got bored . 
nic cage and gary sinise try to inject some life into some poorly realised characters , but it's no use . 
they are boring , faceless , and completely unlikeable . 
yes , another problem with the film is that there's no-one to root for . 
we're supposed to be on cage's side , because his character becomes nicer throughout the film . 
however , his change is sadly unbelievable . 
poor gary sinise's character is terrible , who completely changes throughout the start , the middle and the end , in an appalling way . 
the film's use of flashback quickly gets boring . 
while clever and interesting the first few times , it quickly becomes apparent that flashbacks are being used because the film has nowhere to go . 
they certainly don't increase the tension or suspense of the movie . 
there is small thread of suspense running through the film , but it certainly doesn't make this film a powerhouse thriller , rather just a slightly below average one . 
the script is lousy and contrived , the characters flat and two dimensional . 
certainly not good factors for a film passing itself off for a thriller . 
the most depressing aspect of the film is that it had potential . 
there's a good story buried in snake eyes , it's just bogged down in razzle dazzle and flashbacks . 
it also gives itself away far too quickly , rather than leaving the big twist for the end . 
while the performances are intriguing , especially by newcomer carla gugino as a sexy 'number cruncher' wrapped up in the case , there's no way of altering the fact that snake eyes is a terminal case of style of substance , and unless you're a big fan of either cage or flash directing , should be avoided . 
a david wilcock review ? 1998 
 " you know , for kids " - norville barnes 
it's now the anniversary of the slayings of julie james' ( jennifer love hewitt ) best friends . 
still besieged by nightmarish memories of the man responsible for it all , she seems to be on the verge of a nervous breakdown . 
she can't concentrate on her schoolwork , can't get a good night's sleep , and is even frightened by the shadows and the blinking strobe lights at a local dance club . 
everywhere she looks , she sees visions of the man in a rubber slicker with the hook on his hand . 
in the first movie , `i know what you did last summer' , julie and three of her friends accidentally kill a man , running him down while driving down a dark mountain highway . 
to cover their misdeed , they dump the body into the ocean . 
however , he never quite died and returned to hunt down julie and her friends . 
julie and one other , ray ( freddie prinze jr . ) , survived only to make this dismal sequal . 
needing some desparate rest and relaxation , she is elated to learn that her college roommate , karla ( brandy ) , has won a trip for four to a secluded tropical island . 
accompanying these two girls are karla's overbearing boyfriend , tyrell ( mehki phifer ) and a potential beau for julie . 
but was this contest too good to be true ? 
the resort is filled with a skeleton staff that seemed like love boat rejects . 
meanwhile , the hotel is practically deserted as the storm season is about to begin . 
this presumably creates a venue where they will be secluded and will have no possible means off the island . 
eventually , they will be hunted down during power outages and chased around during intense lightning storms . 
as you might have guessed , somewhere in the shadows lurk a mysteriously strange figure that is wearing a rubber slicker and wielding a hook . 
julie tries to convince her friends that the killer is on the island ( an eerie touch is when she is singing " i will survive " at the karaoke bar and the words scroll " i still know . . . " ) , but her friends chalk it up to paranoia . 
but the body count soon starts to rise , and for julie , it's going to be the worst vacation of her life . 
the funny ( yes , i used the word 'funny' ) thing about this movie is that i heard more chortling and giggling ( maybe it was my giggling ) than i heard screaming . 
this movie boils down to a mindless slashfest that never conjures up any amount of wry wit or even a quirky campiness . 
there isn't even any suspense that leads up to the deaths . 
here's an appropriate example . 
knock-knock . 
 " housekeeping " , says the diminuitive cleaning lady . 
the door suddenly opens up . 
slash . 
next victim ! 
is there any reason to go and see this movie ? 
not unless you want to see four uninteresting college kids run around in circles for about 90 minutes . 
but i do want to say one thing about this movie that satisfied me . 
i was thoroughly irritated with tyrell , who incessantly ranted and raved about his sexual libido . 
i secretly wished for him to get filleted . 
did he get 'hooked' ? 
well , let's just say that if he didn't , i would give this film a grade of " d " . 
lucas was wise to start his star wars trilogy with episode 4 : episode 1 is a boring , empty spectacle that features some nice special effects . 
after the familiar 'a long time ago . . . . ' 
opening , the film starts with the opening yellow crawl that features in every star wars movie and computer game . 
the plot is that the trade confederation are blocking off supplies to the peaceful planet of naboo , ruled by queen amidala ( portman ) jedi knights qui-gon ( neeson ) and obi wan ( mcgregor ) are sent to negotiate a deal with the confederation to stop the blockade . 
however , this simple blockade is not all it seems , and the jedi knights soon have to deal with many more dangers , including facing the evil darth maul ( ray park . ) 
they also meet the future darth vadar , anakin skywalker ( jake lloyd ) 
star wars is largely a failure in all the major areas of filmmaking : script , direction and characters . 
the script desperately tries to make an thin and boring story into a two hour epic . 
the trade confederation plot is just not as exciting as the death star , and as the film goes on the drama becomes more and more non-existent . 
there's no underlying tension , and no urgent need to see what the outcome is . 
the film also takes a leisurely pace in telling the boring story , which doesn't help . 
there's no snap to make the film work , it moves at a plod . 
the script is boring : all the characters speak in morals , especially anakins mother . 
there's no group spirit evident here , and when all characters can speak only in profound statements or bark orders , it's evident that not much is going to happen . 
the two leads are hideously boring , static characters given little to do and too much time to do it . 
qui-gon and obi-wan hold no presence on film , and give little for the audience to root for . 
the audience will probably warm more to bad guy darth maul , if he had been given more screen time . 
maul is one of the most underused bad guys in film history , even if he does provide the only 'straight' plot line in the film ( all the other plots in this film are to be concluded throughout the trilogy . ) 
anakin is annoying and unlikeable . , 
instead of cute and huggable as lucas no doubt intended . 
it's probably not surprising that his hateful little boy , unfortunately blessed 'ani' by everyone he knows , joins the dark side and kills everyone as quickly as possible . 
the comedy relief is supposedly provided by the gangly jar jar brinks , although in the end none is provided in the film by him . 
although his floppy features will no doubt be great for stuffed toys , the lines and actions he is given are painfully unfunny . 
the only good laugh is when his tongue is burned by a 'pod' racer , because i knew he wouldn't be able to talk for a while . 
queen amidala is a nothing in the film , she serves no real purpose apart from the fact that she must 'serve her people , ' and go goo-goo over anakin . 
again , her role will become more important in the later episodes , and is given little to do here . 
the actors don't help the movie much either . 
liam neeson seems bored and embarrassed , and seems desperate to leave the movie as quickly as possible . 
mcgregor comes across as a posh mothers boy , with little charm . 
the casting director must have chose him because he's scottish like alec guinness : there's little other explanation for it . 
natalie portman is plagued by hideous costumes and a poor script , but she delivers a spunky performance . 
and jake lloyd looks at everyone with hateful eyes and delivers his lines in a bored voice . 
there's very little talent evident with him , it's hard to see why lucas chose him when there are better child actors out there . 
he's not even very 'cute . ' 
the main claim of the film , the special effects , are okay . 
there's nothing impressive about them , yet they complement the story well . 
the cgi takes away much of the human element , however . 
the battle droids for example , the replacement for the stormtroopers , are characterless little computer graphics , lacking the humour and humanness that came from the stormtroopers . 
episode 1 is just disappointing . 
it's got high production values , but little else . 
the music is meandering , except near the end . 
the plot gives us no-one to root for , or even care for . 
the effects are nice , but dull . 
the plot goes on for half an hour longer than it should . 
there's an air of manufacturing among the whole sorry affair , and many clich ? s are catered for throughout the film . 
apart from a remotely exciting pod race sequence , episode 1 is a dry affair that serves little purpose , except to make money and to get us to watch episode 2 to see what happens to the many unfinished plot lines in the film . 
disappointing is barely the word . 
rating= 
five girls spend a day in a closed building doing inventory when a strange box gets delivered there ( is this starting to sound familiar ? ) by mistake . 
the girls accidentlly open the box ( big surprise , huh ! ) and release an evil spirit of a killer that kills the girls off one by one ( betcha didn't see that one coming ! ) . 
hard to die , i found out while watching the film , is a sequel to sorority house massacre 2 : nightie nightmare ( r . a . m . r . # 
1521 ) . 
two of the actresses from sorority house massacre 2 are in this film , robyn harris and melissa moore , but they play different characters here . 
orville ketchum is also back as ( get ready for this ) orville ketchum ( yes , the same character from number two ) . 
yes , he is also built like a tank in this film too . 
i'm telling you , a nuclear bomb detonated next to this man wouldn't harm him at all ! 
the before mentioned three were the only actors from part two that i thought could act , well they seemed to have lost that ability . 
thankfully , for my sanity , i also saw the film warlock , which undid all the ill effects that i got from this film . 
the story for this film is completely ridiculous and has many elements from many cheapo low budget horror flicks . 
any good moments that this film fails to make are even more destroyed by the story line . 
the film is so pathetically predictable that every moment has already been figured out , analyzed , and discarded before it happens . 
there is no point in this film that any suspense is ever afoot . 
while we are on the subject of the story , the story also provides every chance it can to disrobe an actress . 
the film goes to the extent of putting a shower in the manager's office . 
i'm sorry folks but this is completely unnecessary , ridiculous , and hurts the story more ( if that is still possible ) . 
the script for this film is completely pathetic . 
the lines the actresses come out with are completely horrible . 
the only thing that i think could have happened is that the actors made up the script as they went along . 
here is an example of the wonderful dialog . 
the scene is two girls have just entered a gun store and have picked out a * really * big gun . 
the line is " my dad used to be a marine , i bet i can work it . " 
this line has got to be a contender for the bad line hall of infamy . 
now , we fast forward for a few minutes until just after a big plan ( ? ! ! ? ) has been presented . 
one comment from an actress is " not a lot of strategy involved , but i like it . " 
i'm afraid folks that this is about as good as they get . 
now lets talk about the great special effects for this film . 
this obviously wasn't a big concern of the film makers . 
the killing scenes are so obviously faked that they go to the point of threatening the viewer's intelligence . 
a girl gets hacked with a knife and enough blood comes out to do one friday the 13th movie . 
are we trying to see how unrealistic we can get ? 
the continuity department was obviously asleep ( along with the viewers ) when watching this film . 
in one shot , actress has cloths on , camera angle changes , actress seems to have lost clothing . 
very impressive trick ! 
the one ( half ? ) 
plus that this film has going for it , is that in many places it is unintentionally hilarious . 
the incompetence behind the film makes it incredibly funny , and so the viewer can get some enjoyment ( ? ! ! ? ) from the film . 
however , this doesn't make it worth the rental fee of over a penny . 
in the acting department , the only thing i can say is two thumbs squared and one head down . 
i would normally do a detailed paragraph on this topic , but there is no point here because there is nobody that i was impressed with in the least . 
oh well , win some , lose some . 
the first film produced by adam sandler's happy madison production company ( clever title eh ? ) is essentially a one joke movie , much like the movies sandler stars in himself . 
however the difference here is that this one joke just isn't very funny . 
rob schneider stars as the title character , a scruffy fish tank cleaner who ends up becoming a " man-whore " to raise enough money to replace a wealthy client's custom made fish tank , which deuce destroyed while staying in his home . 
deuce goes on numerous " dates " , and each woman he goes out with has a " humorous " quirk about herself . 
one has narcolepsy , one has tourette's syndrome , one is a man . . . 
etc . etc . 
my problem is that we see all of these women in the film's trailer , so why do i need to watch the movie ? 
seen the trailer . . . 
seen the film . 
only a quick cameo from norm macdonald ( and a follow up joke during the closing credits ) generates any chuckles . 
deuce bigalow : male gigolo is available on dvd from touchstone home video ( a division of di$ney ) . 
the disc includes the film in its original theatrical aspect ratio of 1 . 85 : 1 , and features the original theatrical trailer ( as well as trailers for mystery alaska , happy texas , and outside providence ) , an extremely brief production featurette ( which contains footage not used in the film ) , and storyboard-to-scene comparisons . 
yep , you read that right . . . 
there are storyboard comparisons on this dvd . 
two scenes are storyboarded . . . 
neither of which are particularly exciting . 
there are fight scenes in this movie , so why aren't we seeing storyboards of those segments ( especially the parody moments from the matrix ) ? 
i wonder what's funnier : the fact that any moment in this film required storyboards or that di$ney thought fans of this film would want to see them ? 
deleted scenes ? 
sure . 
audio commentary ? 
you betcha . 
but storyboards ? 
come on . 
[r] 
tectonic plates is an incredibly painful motion picture experience that nearly prompted me to walk out 20 minutes into the movie . 
the film ( which opened in canada during 1992 but was never released in the united states ) is based on a 1988 stage play by canadian auteur robert lapage , and , while it's evident that this could be a fascinating live production , the translation to the screen is a creative disaster . 
enduring tectonic plates is like sitting through a filmed version of performance art -- lifeless and tedious . 
the qualities that make it captivating when seen in person are effaced in the motion picture medium . 
tectonic plates has a storyline , although the narrative is developed in a decidedly non-traditional fashion , with shots of the stagebound play intercut with more typical cinematic sequences . 
it's not an inherently uninteresting way to present a movie ( despite the valid complaint that it is pretentious , all-but-screaming , " look ! 
art ! " ) , 
although it keeps the audience distanced from the characters . 
because we're constantly made aware that we're watching a play or a movie , it's impossible to accept these individuals as anything more than mouthpieces for the writer's ideas . 
they're not real , sympathetic , or believable . 
i'm willing to give director peter mettler credit for trying something different , but this particular experiment is not a success . 
tectonic plates opens by introducing us to madeleine ( marie gignac ) , an art student studying in montreal who has fallen in love with her professor , jacques ( lapage ) . 
one day , he disappears , and , fearing that he left because she was undeserving of his love , madeleine travels to venice to kill herself . 
while preparing to commit suicide , she encounters drug addict constance ( celine bonnier ) , who causes madeleine to re-think her decision . 
meanwhile , jacques has moved to new york city , where he starts cross-dressing , calls himself jennifer , and becomes a successful counter-culture talkshow host . 
with settings that shift from paris to venice to montreal to manhattan to scotland , supporting characters that include a topless goddess and a deaf/mute , and cultural references that point to chopin , george sand , and jim morrison , tectonic plates is unique , if nothing else . 
however , as interesting as the film sounds ( and i was excited to see it because the synopsis is promising ) , it never really delivers . 
the tone is soporific , the supposedly-intellectual prattle is inane and uninteresting , the plot meanders in a pointless and irritating manner ( although it doesn't take long for the viewer to determine that the story is largely unimportant ) , and the symbolism is obvious . 
tectonic plates is trying to show that human interaction is as volatile as unpredictable as the shifting of the earth , but it takes one-hundred minutes to get across this transparent point . 
there are some worthwhile moments , such as a silly sword fight between jacques and the topless goddess and an entertaining discussion in both french and english about the differences between the two languages ( although the fine points will certainly be lost on those who aren't bilingual ) . 
the only people likely to enjoy tectonic plates are those who feel a strong need to praise something this rootless and boring because ( a ) it's different , ( b ) it's not like anything they've seen before , and ( c ) it's pretentious . 
for everyone else , it's not only a waste of time , but a poor introduction to the work of robert lapage . 
various films seen at the seattle film festival : 
it's all true/three men on a raft ( u . s . a . , 1942/1986 ) director : orson welles 
a recently uncovered one-fourth of orson welle's planned " docu-drama " of amazing stories around the world named it's all true , this short dealt with welle's attempts to document the actions of several brazilian fisherman in 1942 who had become folk heroes for their fantastic voyage to rio on a raft . 
while several clips of the film are seen , the short tends to spend more time trying to recount welle's attempts to film it , despite studio problems , a staggering workload , and extremely ill fortune on the set . 
impressive photography , but really only interesting to film historians . 
sadie thompson ( u . s . a . , 1928 ) director : raoul walsh screenwriter : raoul walsh , from the john colton play " rain " , based on w . somerset maugham's story " miss thompson " cast : gloria swanson , raoul walsh , lionel barrymore silent 
after the discussion of the newly-restored version of frank capra's lost horizon , where several scenes had been restored using stills , i was interested to see sadie thompson , where the last 5 minutes of the film had been destroyed many years ago . 
this is the silent version of the somerset maugham short story " miss thompson " . 
this is one of the most skillful silent films i have ever seen--little awkwardness , and a very clever script . 
the actors : gloria swanson , raoul walsh ( who also directed and wrote the screenplay ) and especially lionel barrymore , as the hypocritical reformer who supposedly wants to save sadie's soul , but really wants to get her between the sheets , is the absolute epitome of sanctimonious scoundrel . 
swanson adds real life to the character , adding an worldly , affectionate air to the bawdy sadie . 
unfortunately , the ending is rather poorly tied up ; it is difficult to know whether this is due to the lack of live-action film , or the original script . 
the happy ending seems particularly poorly tied on ( i cannot believe maugham's short story ended with sadie and our hero moving to australia ) ; the stills are expected to fill in a conclusion we've been waiting an hour and a half for . 
still , it's entertaining right up to the end ; certainly barrymore's incredibly hammy performance ( which , nonetheless , works , perhaps due to the silent screen ) is a must for anyone who is fed up with the actions of the falwells , bakkers , and robertses of the religious worlds . 
a c movie ; worth 2 . 50 if you can find it . 
the pied piper ( czechoslovakia , 1986 ) director : jim barta screenwriter : kamil piza 
this is an animated film from czechoslovakia that is definitely not for kids . 
it tells the old folk tale of the pied piper with a twist ending i find highly appropriate , and with a lot of political comment along with it . 
perhaps economic content is a better word--it certainly doesn't show capitalism in a good light . 
nor human nature , nor anything else , for that matter . 
as you may have guessed , this is not a tgif film ; this is the kind of film you are glad is over . 
not that it wasn't interesting for technical reasons ; this is stop-animation that is very well done . 
all the puppets have been carefully carved out of walnuts--except for the animated stuffed rats . 
boy , sounds like a real comedy vehicle , doesn't it ? 
add onto that set design that makes the cabinet of doctor caligari absolutely cheerful in comparison , and you have something to give the wee ones ( and some of the mentally unstable larger folk ) to keep them up at night . 
some gore . 
don't bring children to this one . 
don't bring adults to this one , unless they're fascinated by puppetry and/or hate capitalism so badly they enjoy seeing wooden puppets raped . 
blech . 
 . no fun whatsoever . 
meier ( west germany , 1986 ) director/screenwriter : peter timm cast : rainier grenkowitz , nadja engelbrecht , alexander hauff , thomas besvater sub-titled 
this film takes us back and forth over the east german/west german border with meier , an east german wallpaperer whose father in the west dies and leaves him a good deal of money . 
his uncle ( also in the west ) sneaks meier out of the country , unknown to the east germans . 
meier , however , is less than thrilled-- his girlfriend , his friends and his job ( which he likes ) all exist in east germany . 
after a round-the-world trip ( his boss think's he's on leave in bulgaria ) , meier starts visiting east germany on day visas with a fake id , and uses his money and his connections to the west to buy his girlfriend presents and bring credit to his work crew's work--while everyone think's he's still living in east germany . 
of course , something goes wrong--and the ending is very funny , but it takes the film too long to get there . 
the humor is spread too thin , and much of the plot is too obvious ( as is the acting ) . 
still , a good concept for the comedy , and the last five minutes are pretty funny . 
c -- $2 . 50 . 
the right hand man ( australia , 1986 ) director : di drew screenplay : helen hodgman cast : rupert everett , hugo weaving , arthur dignam , jennifer claire , catherine mcclements 
after a lifetime of movie-going , and about four years of attending the seattle international film festival , i've learned several rules which , while not absolute , should certainly be given deference to : 
1 ) be wary of french comedies . 
these people like jerry lewis . 
2 ) ken russell is never going to grow up , no matter how long you wait . 
3 ) any film where siff associate director gary tucker refers to the lead as " old pouty-lips " is probably not worth watching . 
4 ) when an australian film only awards credit is best cinematography , watch out ! 
australia has good cinematographers up the whazoo , but since weir and miller left for foreign shores , finding a good script or director seems to be a difficult ( not impossible--witness malcolm last year ) task . 
well , i ignored rules 3 & 4 last night , and sat through a film that should be in the golden turkey awards . 
it's as if the director was trying to do one of those classic romance stories that were done in the 30's about tragedy among the gentry , and falling in love with people below your station , and horses . 
lots and lots of horses . 
the film opens with a stallion mounting a mare under the direction of her ladyship , which i guess is some kind of foreshadowing , because the missus of the house wants to have her son produce an heir . 
unfortunately , said son , a reckless idiot who faints at the very worst times , kills his father and loses an arm during a racing accident . 
highlights include the amputation sequence ; the doctor's daughter , who has the hots for the son , tasting his urine for a diagnosis ; their tender kissing with a window between them ( while it's raining--you'd think a woman studying medicine would know better ) . 
the photography is good , but i kept wishing for b&w--everything seems sepia-colored anyway . 
actually , i wished i was watching swimming to cambodia instead , but that's life . 
grade : z . avoid like the plague , unless you're looking for inadvertent yuks . 
capsule : the weakest and least engaging of the alien movies , dragged down by an uninvolving story and no real tension . 
alien 3 ( the " 3 " should be in superscript ) is a sad and wan entry in what was shaping up as one of the best sf sagas ever put on screen . 
it continues the story of ripley , the space-trucker-turned-impromptu-survivalist , but seems remarkably uninterested in her . 
in fact , the movie seems lucky to be interested in anything at all , it's so elegaic and limp . 
a little of this would have been nice for atmosphere , but the movie telegraphs its own tragedy from the beginning . 
at the end of the last film ( aliens ) , ripley and two survivors were on their way home . 
unfortunately , an alien pod had been deposited in their ship , and wound up triggering off their ejection in an escape pod . 
the pod crashes on firorina 161 , a prison planet designed to house the incurably criminally violent . 
ripley lives through the crash ; the others do not . 
the prison is a grim place , even as prisons go -- it's been built around the remnants of an abandoned steelworks , which provides no end of techno-gothic backdrops for the actors to be backlit against . 
lice are endemic , and so ripley's head is shaved ( another surreal touch ) . 
at first it looks like she just has to hold out as an unwelcome guest until a company rescue ship can arrive , but it doesn't stay that way . 
one of the other eggs on board the wrecked escape pod hatches , and soon a newly-gestated alien is running amuck . 
worse , it looks like ripley herself has been impregnated . 
what's weird is how little tension this generates , except near the end , when the pressure is being troweled on through every cheap cinematic form of cheating imaginable : loud music , shaky camerawork , etc . sigourney weaver has become comfortable with the role , and she does well with it , but this time the role has been underwritten and left slack . 
the supporting actors are also not given a lot to do : the doctor ( charles dance ) and another , rather religious inmate ( charles s . dutton , very good ) , hiave presence , but they're not asked to do anything with it . 
in light of the impending sequel , which apparently plays fast and loose with the ending of this movie , i will not talk about the ending -- except to say that they found a remarkably good ending for such a drab movie . 
it's strange that some of the desperate and improvisational thinking that they found to wind up this story couldn't have driven the rest of it . 
 " from the director of " the nightmare before christmas " it said in the previews , which i'm guessing was said to get people to go see the movie , obviously it hasn't worked since the $75 million dollar movie has yet to break $5 million . 
to each it's own however , since " monkey bone " is not only a bad movie all together , but technically well-made . 
a tragic waste of talent and incredible visual effects . 
stu miley is the genius behind the new phenomena " monkey bone " a crude comic strip , that everyone wants to merchandise , they go to great links to get it as well , including dollars that let out fart powder . 
when stu and his girlfriend , julie ( bridget fonda ) are in a freak car accident ( you'll see ) stu goes into a coma , and while in his coma stu travels to i'm guessing dark town , where all the characters in dreams come to life . 
people are stuck in this town , with their nightmares roaming around them . 
when stu spots monkey bone ( whom he really can't stand ) he tries to keep him under control . 
making a new friend kitty ( rose mcgowan ) he learns that if he gets an exit pass from death , he can go back up and live his life . 
when monkey bone and stu steal a pass , monkey bone becomes a trader and takes it and goes into stu's body . 
now monkey bone must get everyone to buy these dolls with nightmare powder , so everyone has nightmares . . . or 
something like that . 
rather complex ( in fact more than it needs to be ) " monkey bone " had potential in the script and even the story . 
what is considerably noticeable is the gaping plot holes , and lack of character development . 
for instance we really don't get to know who stu or julie are , so why should we even care ? 
kitty played well by rose mcgowan ha a story behind her , but we are not given a chance to know her . 
the cast is decent however , brendan fraser seems to be enjoying himself in the role as stu miley , but becomes awfully annoying when monkey bone takes over his body . 
bridget fonda is dreary and seems to bring the film to a screeching halt , her performance is bad and she seems miscast . 
dave foley isn't given enough to do , as well as " will & grace's " megan mullally who can be funny . 
the standout performance is the voice of nick turturro as monkey bone himself , he is very funny and entertaining and really keeps the film from being a total bust . 
the special effects of " monkey bone " is what might really bring in some curious viewers , these special effects are highly effective , and nice to look at with the eyes . 
some of them are believable and some unbelievable . . . for 
monkey bone he seems to be like stuart little , you really don't realize that he is animated . . . but 
on occasion it sneaks up on you . 
the direction by henry selick is good , but at times he doesn't know what kind of film he wants to make , and the ending climax falls off the cliff . 
it's too bad really , " monkey bone " could have been a real good movie , but with it's heavily done hack job , and lack of character development it just sinks when the end credits role . 
for those curious however , it might be worth the rental , but other than that avoid this one . 
numerous comparisons can be made with this movie to past sci-fi , suspense thrillers . 
soldier is a multi ? crossbreed between the likes of terminator , aliens and offspring . 
the problem with such mixed genes is that the final product is a real mongrel ? not well made and should have been put down before production got off the ground . 
besides this , the action is mediocre when compared to the standard action flicks of this day and age . 
the fight scenes between jason scott lee and kurt russell seem laboured , slow and sluggish , and could have done with better choreography . 
russell who is usually a good actor in b-grade action flicks is unusually hampered by his character ? sergeant todd , who seems more like a sergeant toad . 
besides having almost no dialogue , his character appears stunted , zombie-like which is in line with his screen persona , but scores little points of empathy with the audience . 
this movie has not made me change my opinion about director paul anderson , whose last epic event horizon has left an unusually bitter taste in my mouth . 
although this movie does not come anywhere close to the strangeness of former , it is still a long way from anything considered desirable . 
a documentary from the twin hughes brothers , allen and albert ( dead presidents , menace ii society ) , about street pimps , all of whom are african-american . 
an offscreen interviewer questions them about their lives and profession . 
it is mostly the pimps who do the talking for their ho's , and the egotistical and flamboyant way you would expect them to be , is what you get . 
i learned that the word " bitch " is their favorite word , as it seemed to crop up in every sentence they used . 
it makes for a film with no surprises or nothing fresh to say , but if one has a sense a humor for what their lifestyle is about , then some of what they rap about might seem amusing . 
they seem to all want to be thought of as businessmen , in the business because it is the easiest way for them to make big money . 
it's also a power trip , accomplished by manipulating the girls to work for them , mostly by humiliating them and keeping them in place . 
this sleazy pic , soon became grating and wore out its welcome to my unreceptive ears . 
these verbose pimps had a smart answer for everything and never knew when to shut their face . 
the hughes brothers used as their pimp role models , the feather-hatted , fur-coated , diamond ring-wearing , gold chain wearing , flashy cadillac-cruising pimp of the late '70s blaxploitation movies--like the mack and willie dynamite . 
also used as reference , was iceberg slim's best-seller pimp , the story of my life . 
we meet pimps such as : fillmore slim , c-note , charm , k-red , gorgeous dre , bishop don magic juan , and rosebudd . 
they readily discuss their business arrangements : including percentages , lifestyles , knockin ( stealing another pimp's ho ) , and the thrill they get from women giving them money . 
these dudes needed no prompting to talk , as they just love to brag about about themselves . 
 " priests need nuns , '' yaps c-note , a san francisco pimp . 
 " doctors need nurses . 
so ho's need pimps . '' 
as he tries to persuasively make the same case all the other pimps in the film make ; that the girls need them to show them the ropes , how to make money , to be their security blankets , protectors , and counselors . 
the race issue was brought up right from the film's onset , as a number of white interviewees , regular citizens , note that their impression of a pimp , is that he's the lowest form of human . 
while , we are told , in the black community , the pimp is looked upon as a successful entrepenaur , riding around in fancy cars , flashing wads of money , dressed in a flamboyant style , where his snake-gaiter shoes might cost him a grand , and where he boasts hollywood style status in the community . 
we also see that the black pimps have a number of white girls in their stable and we see how they treat them like dirt , as the film implies that this could be payback for the days of slavery , of master and slave relations . 
the film was all about pimp style and their projected image , as they run a hard-sell riff about the virtues of their work . 
there are different styles of pimping , but the film mentions them only as being " macks " and " players " or " real pimps " and " perpetrator pimps , " but no further clarity is attempted . 
it is also failed to get the women's side to this story of abuse , primarily taking the pimp at his word . 
the film could never get to the core of what makes the pimp think in such a perverted way as he does , as the filmmakers were taking for a ride by the pimps , who were looking only to pose in front of the camera and say their thing , hungry for their 15-minutes of fame . 
the only laughs i got out of this bleak look at an american subculture , was hearing how a few pimps retired and what they are now up to . 
danny brown became a blues singer so he could keep his pimp's wardrobe . 
while a hollywood pimp called rosebudd , married his ho and turned square , working to support his wife and daughter as a telemarketer . 
gord brody ( tom green ) is an aspiring animator approaching thirty who still lives in parents jim ( rip torn ) and julie's ( julie hagerty , " airplane " ) basement . 
as dad declares all out war , gord secures a job in a cheese sandwich factory in far off la and sets off to make his dreams come true . 
gord doesn't make much of a go on his first attempt and lands back home with fawning mom and outraged dad in " freddy got fingered . " 
tom green cowrites ( with " tom green show " scribe derek harvie ) , directs and stars in what is essentially tom green's primal scream . 
so , if tom green screams in an empty theater , does he make a sound ? 
it's clear that " freddy got fingered " is at least partially autobiographical and green sure has one hell of a complex about his dad ( mom gets off easier when sonny boy advises her to go out and have sex with basketball players and greeks ) . 
while this may be of interest to his hard core fans , there's little about green's mania on display here to recommend this movie to anyone else . 
the film starts promisingly enough , with a well executed skateboarding scene through a shopping mall set to the sex pistols' 'problem' ( green's put together a first rate soundtrack ) and yes , i laughed a few times . 
green's flummoxing of a security guard with psychotic ramblings and his attempt to draw , make music and eat at the same time ( the 'daddy would you like some sausages' scene repeatedly shown in the film's trailer ) are inspired comedy . 
but what's funny about a paraplegic girlfriend who gets turned on by having her legs caned or a skateboarding injury that results in an exposed kneecap ? 
a baby delivery bit shows some groan-inducing promise until enough blood is splattered to coagulate the laughs . 
younger ( by three years ) brother freddy's internment at the institute for sexually abused children does nothing but confirm one's worst fears regarding the film's title and green's infamous 'handling' of a real horse , while not nearly as shocking as it would seem , doesn't make sense . 
by the time he repeats the gag with an elephant at film's end , the overall effect is numbness . 
while " freddy got fingered " has the admirable end result of depicting the harm in demeaning a child's self esteem , it's essentially a whole lot of tom green running around being noisy . 
rip torn , what were you thinking ? 
much ado about nothing . 
ah , how sweet the irony ! 
it's accepted wisdom in some circles - among english literature nuts , mainly - that whenever a critic knocks shakespeare they are only doing so through ignorance . 
he just doesn't " understand " shakespeare , you will hear them say . 
the bard's work is apparently beyond criticism . 
what a load of old cobblers . 
if these arbiters of public taste think kenneth branaugh's film of shakespeare's " comedy " much ado about nothing is comedy in any modern sense of the word , it's time to get a life . 
get monty python . 
get woody allen . 
get john waters . 
whatever . 
just get a real taste of some clever , witty , risky comedy . 
and banish this nonsense to where it belongs . 
drama and tragedy was shakespeare's strength . 
to my sensibilities - and i'm no stick in the mud - much ado about nothing resonates with no spark whatsoever . 
no kidding : this film ranks among the most embarrassing two hours i have ever spent in a cinema in my 20 years of movie going . 
the only thing that stopped me walking out was loyalty to my lady friend , as this was our day out and i hadn't seen her in ages . 
but boy , does she owe me one ! 
i won't spend too much time on the plot . 
basically , we follow the trials and tribulations of two would-be couples - one young , the other older . 
there's some dark treachery amongst all this , but everyone is so awfully jolly that you'd hardly know it . 
mind you , there's nothing wrong with the basic story . 
good romantic comedies based on similar premises abound . 
nothing wrong with most of the cast , either . 
branaugh , emma thompson and denzel washington are all talented performers . 
the problem is the script , or more accurately , shakespeare's original text . 
light comedy shouldn't be complex . 
yet wrapped in elizabethan english , the dialogue becomes difficult to comprehend . 
for this alone it will be a problem for modern audiences unschooled in shakespeare and in search of nothing more than a good , undemanding laugh . 
the only laughs to escape my belly were brought on by the gloriously inept performance of keanu reeves , the actor once again miscast as a jealous half-brother or something . 
but when dissected and understood , what it all boils down to is that this stuff is just so goddamn lame . 
this is comedy so clean and nice and corny and so devoid of danger that it leaves this viewer totally cold . 
ho , ho , ho , boy likes girl ! 
ho , ho , ho , men are such klutzes ! 
ho , ho , ho , she's so awfully clumsy ! 
oh please ! 
there's wit in here somewhere , i'm told . 
i call it pretentious . 
something lightweight striving to be something sophisticated through clever wordplay . 
in the end , it's cringeworthy . 
watching some of the cinema patrons around me collapse with laughter made much ado about nothing a very weird movie going experience . 
comedy ? 
bah , humbug ! 
another formula 'feel good' quirky comedy from the british isles , much like " waking ned devine , " and a host of other popular low budget movies that turned a nifty profit off a thin story line . 
it is filled with likable establishment types living in a quaint town , such as tolerant vicars and policemen , plenty of eccentrics , and of locals who stick together through thick and thin . 
the strength of this film lies in its rational theme , that smoking pot should be legalized since it is even less dangerous than drinking alcohol . 
the film is tolerable until after its first hour , it then falls completely apart , becoming just too absurd to consider as anything but sitcom fluff gone completely bananas . 
but its long overdue message of decriminalization for certain drugs is on target and allows the film to , at least , be viewed as containing a pertinent message . 
its message is especially appropriate nowadays considering the 'war on drugs' is about to be escalated into colombia . 
the drug war has been a total failure so far and with no hope of it being won by law enforcement methods in the future , it has so far just ended up causing america's jails to be overcrowded with non-violent drug prisoners and offers zero hope of curtailing america's drug usage and drug supply . 
billions of dollars have just been allocated by congress to get officially involved in the colombian civil war , by backing a corrupt government ( remember vietnam ! ) with the idea that military might could stop the cocaine and marijuana harvests in that country . 
everything about this proposed action smacks of vietnam , with this scenario closer to home , so what probably awaits such an effort is a more futile result than the other war . 
the film's mild theme of showing squares getting into the weed business and finding it acceptable by the public , something that should have been accepted some 40 years ago , is a theme long overdue for public acceptance , but one that is better received late than never . 
there has to be some common sense in distinguishing what drugs should be legalized and how to educate the public on this , rather than making it a police matter altogether . 
the film opens in a quaint cornish seaside village at the funeral of the husband of a middle-aged woman , grace ( brenda blethyn ) , who fell out of an airplane , evidently committing suicide . 
the widow soon finds out her husband was a bigger bastard than she imagined . 
he left her with a stack of enormous bills and put up , without her knowledge , their comfortable 300 year old house as collateral for a failed business venture by taking out a second mortgage . 
the widow finds herself bankrupt and with no marketable skills to pay back her husband's enormous debts and prevent her from losing the house and becoming homeless . 
she also knows that he was having an affair with a sophisticated woman from london , honey ( quick ) . 
what makes the affair doubly unsatisfying , is that when conferring with honey , she finds out that he was a tiger with her in bed but refrained from having sex with her . 
even though the locals try to help the bankrupt widow out as best they can , the creditors swoop down on her like vultures . 
her gardener and handyman , matthew ( ferguson ) , decides to stay on with her , despite his last check bouncing . 
since she is an expert amateur horticulturist , he convinces her to help him revive his hemp plants , which he grows for private use . 
the two soon see this as a possibly big business opportunity , as grace works miracles with the plants which turn out to be high-quality stuff . 
for grace , this is a way to save her house and get her out of debt ; for the scotsman , matthew , it offers a chance for him to continue to live in this beautiful village and earn enough money to marry his fisherman girlfriend nicky ( valerie ) . 
the locals all let the illegal activities go on undisturbed : the police sergeant ( campbell ) pretends not to notice what the bright lights in grace's greenhouse is for , the friendly vicar ( phillips ) counsels about the wisdom of not taking action over something that you can't control , and the doctor ( clunes ) enjoys smoking the weed for recreation . 
the story becomes incredulous when grace decides to go to london and score with a big-time drug dealer instead of having matthew go , because she finds out nicky is pregnant and doesn't want matthew to end up in jail . 
it is interesting to note , that no one thinks smoking grass is bad for you , only that one can go to jail . 
the scene with grace on portobello road in the notting hill section of london , trying to find a drug dealer , while dressed out of place , in a white dress and hat one would wear to a tea party in cornwall but not on the streets of notting hill while looking to make a drug deal , was completely hokey and the film descended into a huge black hole , whereby it never recovered its dignity . 
the film moves into the formula mode , whereas grace beats the odds against her failing to survive , as she meets an international drug dealer , a frenchman ( tcheky karyo ) , who is first seen threatening to cut off her fingers but later becomes her business partner and husband as she becomes a millionaire and writes a best selling fiction book about her experiences , thereby becoming a celebrity . 
things work out in a ridiculous way , where there is a total breakdown in the character development of grace , where this matronly figure suddenly becomes merely a cartoon figure instead of live flesh and blood . 
there are a lot of silly giggles that come forth and the film has just enough of an acting performance by brenda blethyn to breathe air into it before it comes to its belated finale , as it drones on with its transparently gratuitous upbeat tone , until it makes the audience feel good that the sweet old lady succeeded . 
this 'unhip' film leaves one with the impression that smoking and growing pot is silly , but should be tolerated as something naughty middle-aged widows screwed by their terrible former husbands must do in order not to remain destitute . 
ummm ! 
 " love to kill " starts off aimlessly and gets progressively less coherent as time passes . 
at the outset , the movie appears to be about tony danza , who's an illegal distributor of guns , trying to establish a relationship with an unsuspecting woman . 
danza sets up a double date with her , her sister , and a collegue of his . 
everything seems to be going well , until the sister accidentally dies by falling down a set of stairs . 
much confusion and mahem ensues , as the death is covered up and other associates of danza's begin to emerge , all after one thing or another . 
sound confusing ? 
it is . 
i think what the filmmakers were trying to do is take the standard crime movie and throw in a little humour and levity . 
in some respects , it works . 
but the majority of the film is a convoluted and confusing mess . 
characters keep popping up with no explanation , demanding money for deals that occur off-screen . 
the only aspect of the movie that actually works is the budding relationship between danza and the dead woman's sister . 
but so little time is devoted to this part of the story , we never really become too familiar with these characters , and because of this , we don't really care what happens to them . 
well , i didn't , at least . 
one thing i will give the movie is that it's a complete departure for tony danza . 
here's a guy , because of his many sitcom roles , who's ingrained in the consciousness as a nice guy who always does the right thing . 
here , he plays a man who's just looking out for himself , and if that means he needs to kill in order to save his own skin , so be it . 
i was very impressed by his performance , and within minutes of the start of the film , i had forgotten all about his good-guy persona . 
michael madsen is also good as an associate of danza's who spends half the movie buddying up to him and the other half trying to kill him . 
like i said , it's not exactly a linear storyline . 
 " love to kill " should be praised for trying to do something different with the well worn crime genre , but it's just too bad that the story doesn't really add up to much . 
the stars deserved better , and so did the audience . 
whether you like the beatles or not , nobody wants to see the bee gee's take on some of the fab four's best known songs . 
well , maybe that's not true . 
 . 
 . 
maybe you're curious , the way you have to look in your hanky after you blow your nose . 
you just have to know how bad bad can be . 
if that's the case , rejoice , because it was twenty years ago today ( or so ) that sgt . 
pepper's lonely hearts club band was released ( unleashed ? ) to the world , and thanks to our modern technological advances , you can find this retched piece of filmmaking on vhs . 
derived from the lyrics of various beatles' songs , sgt . 
pepper's tells the story of the fictitious band made popular from the song ( and album ) of the same name , released in 1967 . 
of course , the movie was made eleven years later , the gibbs three have become the lonely hearts , peter frampton is the one and only billy shears , and aside from being about a rock band , the story doesn't correlate to the song at all . 
and oh , what joy - we're the lovely audience they'd like to take home with them . 
i don't think so . 
but at least these characters are actually * people * in a beatles' song , whereas other characters such as strawberry fields ( sandy farina ) gets her name from a song about a * place * called strawberry fields . 
the debate over this is really quite futile when it comes down to it , because all the film really has to offer is a feast of horrid cover tunes , embarrassing cameo appearances ( george burns ? ! 
steve martin ? ! ? 
alice cooper ? ! ? ! ) , and uuuuuuggggggglllllllyyyyy 70's fashion and faces . 
check please ! 
the plot is a bit unclear . 
people with bad 70's hair run around in leisure suits engaging in music video sequences that look like a sick and twisted world of make-believe from an overly demented mr . rogers . 
mean mr . mustard ( frankie howerd ) somehow gets hold of all billy & co . 's instruments , calling dr . maxwell edison ( steve martin with a silver hammer and an out-of-key singing voice ) , the sun king , marvin sunk ( alice cooper ! ) , and a couple of creepy robots to his aid . 
supposedly this is a horrible thing ? 
i guess in heartland , the talent is pretty non-existent . 
meanwhile , the lonely hearts are off doing the classic " sex , drugs , and rock n' roll " thing , leaving poor strawberry fields without her true love , billy . 
she sets out to find him , leaving her poor dad and mom ( mrs . 
fields ! 
hey , wanna cookie ? ) 
all alone to sing a horrible rendition of " she's leaving home " , accompanied by those same creepy robots . 
but is billy getting it on with lucy ( dianne steinberg ) ? 
ya know , the diamond possessing girl who hangs out in the sky ? 
well , there's some crazy chick singing soprano on the roof of a building next to a bus stop , and i assume that's who it was . 
it's movies like this that make ya sit back and ask the unanswerable question , " what the hell were they thinking ? ? ? " 
nobody will ever know , but as a novelty , sgt . 
pepper's is one to examine . 
carol channing , robert palmer , keith carradine - they're all here . 
but why ? ? ? ? 
who knows . 
it's irrelevant . 
there's as much meaning to be found here as there is to be found in your belly-button lint , although the latter may be more interesting . 
with the recent onslaught of 70's nostalgia in the movie world ( the ice storm , boogie nights , reissues of the star wars trilogy , etc . ) , let's pray this doesn't get a special 20th anniversary , second-chance in theaters . 
in the words of paul mccartney , live and let die . 
in fact , bury this one while you still can . 
warning : spoilers are included in this review . . . 
but it doesn't really make much of a difference . 
deep impact begins the official summer movie season , and it also brings back memories of 1997 . 
remember when dante's peak came out in february ? 
a few months later , volcano was released . 
the first film was smart , exhilirating , and one of the best disaster films i had ever seen . 
the latter film was an incohesive mess that defied logic and wasted talent . 
well , it's deja vu all over again as two disaster films go head to head in competition . 
this time , unfortunately , the first comet flick is so bad that people may shy away from armageddon , the upcoming comet-disaster to be released the beginning of july . 
of course , the general reaction of the audience was oppposed to mine , and so i am in the minority , as i was when i stood on the side of dante's peak . 
but while watching deep impact , i began to wonder how anyone in their right mind could actually like this film . 
apparently many did , and it utterly baffles me . 
to be completely honest , i haven't had this little fun watching a disaster film in my entire life . 
volcano had implausibilities up the wazoo , but it was still rather fun to watch . 
deep impact doesn't just have implausibilities , it also contains cheap human drama , incredibly horrible special effects , and a poorly constructed plot . 
the only thing that gives it a half star above my bottom ranking is a slightly entertaining final fifteen minutes and some good actors making the most of their characters . 
deep impact begins in an unnamed year ( the year varies ; advanced technology sets it in the future , but fire in the sky is showing on a local movie theater , pushing it back to 1993 ) . 
a line of students is outside at night , peering through telescopes at the dark sky above . 
among these are leo biederman ( elijah wood ) and sarah hotchner ( leelee sobieski ) . 
leo unknowingly discovers a comet , and his teacher sends a photo of the unknown object to an astronomer , who then is able to determine the correct path of this distant comet in about a few seconds . 
he races off to mail the information , but is killed in a reckless car accident . 
a year passes , and nothing is heard about it again . 
we are then introduced to jenny lerner ( t ? a leoni ) , a reporter for msnbc . 
she gets handed a job to investigate a possible cover-up in the government involving senator alan rittenhouse ( james cromwell ) . 
she talks to a woman who mentions that rittenhouse was having an affair with a girl named ellie . 
after talking with rittenhouse , and unsatisfied with the information she gets , she decides to use the internet for help . 
luckily , she knows exactly how to spell the certain " ellie " that she is looking for ( they spell it ele in the film . . . 
that girl is pretty darn smart for guessing how it was spelled ) . 
before she can use the information , the government decides to push her car off the road . 
they take her in to meet the president of the united states , president beck ( morgan freeman ) . 
beck recommends that jenny keep the information secret for 48 hours so they can confirm it and then hold a press conference . 
naturally , she wants to be compensated , and they offer her a front row seat and the chance for the first question . 
and so , yada yada yada , they reveal the comet to the public and their plans : send a massive spacecraft out to destroy it before it can arrive . 
they announce a plan called " ark , " which is their only hope for survival . 
a computer will select 800 , 000 people at random . 
these people are the ones who will go into a large cave underground so that the impact of the comet won't kill off the entire human race . 
after two years , the dust will settle ( actually , it would take much , much longer--approximately ninety years , from what i understand ) and the humans could come back to the surface and start over . 
the rest of the plot is your standard disaster film procedures , but there is one subplot worth mentioning . 
jenny and her father , jason ( maximilian schell ) , have a very touching relationship that forms out of the impending doom . 
the final moment involving the two characters is heartfelt and emotional . 
it's a shame that nothing else is heartfelt . 
now , of course , we all know that the comet does impact the surface . 
the title alone suggests it , and the previews actually show it ! 
by doing this , absoltuely no tension can be drawn from any attempt to stop the comet because we all know that it won't work . 
director mimi leder came from her successful tries at direction with episodes of the hit television show " er . " 
her major film debut was the peacemaker , a pathetic and heartless action film . 
well , this time leder outdid herself , creating a film worse than that one . 
suggestion to ms . leder : please , stay away from the big screen , or at least the action genre . 
much of the blame can be placed on leder directly , because the pace is disastrously off . 
throughout the film we are given subtitles that tell us how much time has passed ( it goes from months to weeks to hours ) . 
it literally feels like this lapsed time is taking place in real-time--it's that boring . 
of course , leder isn't all to blame for it . 
screenwriters michael tolkin and bruce joel rubin have crafted a simplistic story that only gets worse with time . 
what starts out promising soon turns deadly ( for the audience anyway ) . 
chock full of cheesy one liners ( " you know , you are going to have more sex than anyone else in school ! " ) 
and stupid characters , you might think we were back in the 70s again . 
only one of the subplots is remotely interesting , while the rest are forgettable and boring . 
and the main plot is so outrageous that you can't figure out if this film is supposed to be an action , drama , or sci-fi . 
to put it simply : the special effects of this film are a hit and miss situation . 
that's right , 80% miss , and 20% hit . 
scenes above the earth are well done , and the orbiting ship is majestic . 
but the comet is a huge mistake , making it more laughable than frightening . 
the concept of even trying to land on a comet is preposterous enough , but that's forgiveable . 
what isn't forgiveable is actually having humans walk on the surface . 
give me a break , will ya ? 
and of course , the much hyped collision of comet and earth . 
well , it is far from spectacular , and it makes independence day look brilliant . 
the water rushing towards the land is effective , but once it hits the continent , the effects turn ridiculous . 
cgi water is used , and it looks so bad that i heard more laughs from the audience than shrieks . 
in fact , i may even recommend the film for those who want to see how bad effects can actually get these days . 
just when we think visual effects can't be improved , along comes a film to show that they really can and should be . 
one thing has struck a wrong note with me concerning mimi leder's direction , which also influences the actors . 
leder loves to show the actors' faces before and during moments of terror . 
this reminded me of another action director , renny harlin ( die hard 2 , cliffhanger ) . 
but harlin succeeds because he shows the faces of the victims in realistic situations . 
leder likes to flaunt people's fears via their faces , but instead of coming off as sympathetic , leder seems more of a sadist . 
one moment has an astronaut flying off into space . 
this should be enough to warrant a response from the audience , but leder wants to go farther and shows us the person's face while drifting into space . 
this is one of the cheapest ways to ellicit an emotional response from an audience , and i , for one , am not going to be fooled . 
on another note , leder's film only picks up its pace during the last fifteen minutes when the comet actually impacts . 
the pace does pick up , and some very emotional moments are shown . 
then again , when you watch people cry for their loved ones , it's obvious it will be emotional . 
it's mostly just a big trick to rope viewers into " feeling " for the characters , but it didn't work for me . 
but anyway , the actors do as much as they can with what they are given . 
t ? a leoni ( bad boys , tv's " the naked truth " ) is the best of the film , and she is given the meatiest role . 
her character is made stronger by leoni's presence , and we grow to care for her . 
robert duvall is energetic and fun to watch , but his character is turned into shreds by the plot . 
elijah wood also comes off rather successfully , but he still hasn't had many good roles ( wood , stick to drama ! 
you are too talented for this stuff ) . 
vanessa redgrave is barely acknowledgeable , and her performance is only enhanced by her strong presence on screen . 
maximilian schell is distracting , but he does provide some nice humor . 
morgan freeman has been infinitely better than this , and gives one of his most shallow performances to date ( which is quite remarkable for him ) . 
leelee sobieski could have been better , but i think she just suffered from a poorly written character . 
a special note should go to ron eldard and denise crosby . 
eldard is good in his role , but is limited by the plot . 
crosby is special to me personally because she was tasha yar from tv's " star trek : the next generation . " 
seeing her was one of the highlights of the film . 
overall , a very talented cast virtually wasted . 
deep impact is rated pg-13 for disaster related elements and brief language . 
this is one of the worst films of the year , and if it is any omen of things to come , this summer could be one of the worst ever . 
luckily , the x-files movie is coming up , and hopefully armageddon will be more successful . 
it's a shame that this film will do so successfully because it just isn't worth much . 
costing nearly $75 million , with special effects done by the illustrious ilm ( which is a huge shocker ) , and with a score composed by oscar-winner james horner ( titanic ) , one might have expected this to be more fun to witness and experience . 
well , it's not . 
when the comet does hit the earth , you almost wish it could just take this film along with it . 
my first press screening of 1998 and already i've gotten a prime candidate for my worst ten of the year list . 
what an auspicious beginning ! 
welcome to the dog days of winter when the only film openings of merit are those oscar contenders that the studios opened in late december in new york and l . a . and which are just now beginning to appear elsewhere . 
firestorm , the directorial debut of dances with wolves's academy award winning cinematographer dean semler , is the first of the new year's crop of movies . 
as our story opens , the movie pretentiously informs us that of the tens of thousands of firefighters only 400 are " smokejumpers . " 
we then cut to a plane load of smoke jumping cowboys and one cowgirl , where one of the gung-ho guys is taking a romance quiz from " cosmopolitan . " 
having the time of their lives , they then jump into the middle of a burning forest . 
when , even in the beginning , the director can't get the small parts right , you can sense the movie is in trouble . 
with the noisy fire roaring all about them and with the trapped people huddled near their gasoline-filled cars , smokejumper monica ( christianne hirt ) tells them to get away from their soon-to-explode vehicles . 
not bothering to shout nor even get close to them , she announces her warning without raising her voice much or approaching the people . 
miraculously , they manage to hear her and move away . 
in a movie that specializes in cheap shots , the camera locates the proverbial young girl trapped in a nearby burning building . 
as it does throughout , overly dramatic cinematographer stephen f . windon from the postman uses extremely fast zooms right down to the endangered girl's face . 
our show's two heroes , the crew's chief , wynt perkins , played laconically by scott glenn , and his second-in-command , jesse graves , played by howie long in a weak attempt to be the next steven seagal , enter the burning house looking for the little girl . 
in a panic they have difficulty in locating her before they are engulfed in flames . 
the manipulative script has her hidden in her own dollhouse . 
this mawkish show cuts back to monica , who has a life-or-death decision to make . 
the chopper with the fire-retardant chemicals has only enough to save one group . 
will it be the large group near the cars or the helpless little girl and monica's two firefighting buddies ? 
she has only seconds to decide who will be saved . 
yes , she goes for the majority , but , miracle of miracles , the other three come out alive anyway . 
not content with a traditional firefighting story , chris soth's screenplay attempts to jazz it up by having william forsythe from palookaville play a vicious killer named randy earl shaye who sets a forest fire so that he can join the crew to put it out and then escape . 
 ( " hoods in the woods , " is what the " ground-pounders " yell out when the convicts are bused in to help them fight the fire . ) 
along the way , shaye picks up an ornithologist hostage played by suzy amis , who turns out to have been trained in warrior ways by her father , who was a marine drill instructor . 
most of the highly predictable movie is a long chase in which poor howie long is given one ridiculous stunt after another to look silly performing . 
he flings a chain saw backwards over his head while riding a speeding motorcycle so that the saw can hit the windshield of the pursuing truck . 
arguably the low point is when he escapes from a locked burning building by riding a motorcycle conveniently parked inside . 
using a ramp , he shoots straight out of the top of the building's attic , and when he hits the ground , he just rides off in a cloud of dust . 
when the film isn't using some stock footage of actual forest fires , the simulated ones look hokey . 
editor jack hofstra cheapens the action even more by his use of burning flames in scene transitions . 
the ending , with its sick twists , manages to be even worse than the rest of the movie . 
perhaps the best that can be said for the picture is the faint praise i heard afterwards in the lobby , " it's not as bad as some of the television sitcoms . " 
firestorm runs mercifully just 1 : 29 . 
it is rated r for violence and language and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
ever since wargames , the first real computer hacking movie , hollywood has attempted to produce more and more films about hacking . 
these films usually show the audience a look into computers that really is not impossible and is usually ridiculous . 
if it's not this , the exaggeration about what is real is usually greater than you would expect . 
hackers is guilty of all of these crimes . 
to anyone familiar with computers and/or the internet , most of the movie is so incredibly stupid that you can't take it anymore . 
those of you who frequent one of the greatest sites on the world wide web , the internet movie database , are probably aware of the section for movies entitled " goofs " . 
this is the section for mistakes in the movies . 
well , imdb sums up hackers extremely well with the first goof listed : " generally ill-informed and ridiculous to the extreme regarding the capabilities of computers and technology " . 
and truthfully , this is one-hundred percent correct . 
the plot , obviously , centers around computer hacking . 
more specifically , it follows the exploits of dade murphy , a young computer hacker played by jonny lee miller . 
miller should be extremely thankful for the film trainspotting , because if it were not for that , who knows where his career would be now after hackers . 
the film opens with a young dade murphy being arrested for hacking computer systems . 
he was forbidden to use a computer until he turned eighteen years old . 
the film then picks up at that point , an eighteen year old dade murphy hacking away at the computer . 
dade later meets up with fellow hackers acid burn ( angelina jolie ) , cereal killer ( matthew lillard ) , lord nikon ( laurence mason ) , and the phantom phreak ( renoly santiago ) , who are basically trying to do what is next to impossible : hack the gibson computer and not get caught by the fbi . 
oh , and as a little sub-plot , dade also tries to woo acid burn , the only female hacker in the film . 
really , i can't think of much more to say about the film's plot aside from what i've said . 
it's just a bunch of computer geeks ( no , obsessive compulsive computer geeks a little too advanced for reality ) running around hacking computers and staying away from the fbi . 
thanks to this movie , the public unfamiliar with computers now has a distorted viewpoint of computers and what they can do . 
this movie makes computers look a little bit too advanced for their time , and the frivolous suggestions it makes are too many to list . 
to sum it up , hackers is a terrible computer film . 
if you're looking for a film about computers closer to what goes on in the real world , i suggest sneakers . 
although at times it too may seem a little far fetched , it should be much more believable than hackers to regular computer users . 
hopefully , this film didn't influence too many young computer users out to think they can do what is portrayed in this 105 minute waste of time . 
if there's one thing i just can't stand , it's a film that oozes with sentimentality . 
here's a note to all film makers : films are more effective when the emotions of the characters speak for themselves . 
swelling , saddening music is not a good way to tell us that the people in the film are unhappy , and that the situation is hopeless . 
alas , my giant is a film that uses manipulative sentimentality so frequently and with such high intensity that i forgot as i watched it that there are other ways of getting audience members choked up . 
what reminded me was that i wasn't choked up , or even the slightest bit moved , for that matter . 
my giant is a forced , contrived , and conspicuously un-cute ( i detest the word " cute " but i've chosen to use it because the makers clearly wanted to create a " cute " film here ) . 
it takes a premise that might have been interesting ( i liked the preview ) , and bogs it down with endless plot turns and cliches , all of which are intended to get some kind of easy emotional rise from the audience . 
maybe it will work for some people . 
it didn't work for me . 
billy crystal plays sam cayman , an agent who , at the beginning of the film , is in romania . 
he's in romania because the kid actor he made famous is doing a film . 
the screenplay has him in romania so he can get fired , get in a car accident , and get saved by an enormous individual who stands almost eight feet tall . 
his name is max ( gheorghe muresan ) , and sam thinks he'd be a great movie star because of his size . 
subplots are as follows : sam has a son and a wife ( kathleen quinlan ) , and he's never around for them , so they move to chicago . 
max is in love with a woman named lilianna who moved away from romania twenty years before the film begins . 
sam convinces max to go back to america with him so they can make lots of money , and so their various subplots can all be resolved . 
sam is broke . 
max is dying . 
pass the kleenex . 
my giant , as a comedy , is only moderately funny . 
it has its moments , the best of which features steven seagal making fun of himself . 
in one great scene , sam gets his son on the phone to talk to seagal ; of course , his son doesn't believe that he's actually speaking to seagal , and he goes off about how bad of an actor he is ( i would quote the line i like but it would probably lose its effect ) . 
crystal is always entertaining , and he has a few good lines here ( some of which are subtle throwaways that many will miss entirely ) ; often , however , he's countered by a slew of jokes that aren't funny , and cause an involuntary rolling of the eyes . 
muresan is kind of fun to watch , but he just can't act very well . 
quinlan , on the other hand , is a great actress who needs to get a role that shows off her talents . 
she was underused last year in both event horizon and breakdown , but at least in those films she had moments in which she could show us her stuff . 
here , the best thing she gets to do is fake a romanian accent . 
all of these disappointing ingredients create a film that , for much of its running time , is simply mediocre . 
as my giant lumbers to its inevitable conclusion , however , director michael lehmann ( who did a great job directing the underrated hudson hawk ) and scriptwriter david seltzer pile on every cliche imaginable , each one intended specifically to pull at our heartstrings . 
sam's multiple engagements with his family are all completely hackneyed ( how about a main character who has a healthy relationship with his family ? ) . 
later , it turns out the entire story is supposed to be a great big metaphor signifying sam's reunion with his family . 
and some people might think that what sam does for max towards the end is a valiant thing , but i had a few morality problems with it ( and i apologize for being vague ) . 
it's icky . 
it drips with gooey , wannabe human emotions . 
my giant could have been a straightforward and funny family film . 
more importantly , it could have been moving on a level far deeper than it is . 
instead , it's a complicated , overlong , and under-engaging film that elicits too few laughs and strives for superficial tears . 
and since it left me feeling completely unmoved , i stand by my position that sentimentality is evil and will ultimately destroy the world . 
this is not a simple plan about finding a plane load of money and getting away with the cash . 
this is more about a parable of greed , and how money can become the bane of your life . 
yes , there are elements of ? fargo' here ( the snow and cold ) , although not as vivid in the blood and gore department . 
it shows how greed can set of a chain of events leading to death and the destruction of lives . 
and how at the end of the day , the things that matter most are love , truth and honesty . 
although in one sense it may seem tedious , making a movie about the ugliness of greed ( not box office material ) , it does become tedious , not because of the morale ending , but because one expects the movie to end that way . 
this becomes apparent after the first murder to cover up the crime , the rest of the movie just spirals downward from there . 
the characters in this drama are a mixture of simple and intellectual folk , brothers and friends , who all fall prey to the avarice of money . 
they should have perhaps thrown in someone sensible , level headed and not affected by greed to give the party more balance . 
commendable is the exceptional performance of billy bob thornton , whose portrayal of the simpleton brother was masterful . 
bill paxton also gives a powerful performance as the greedier younger brother , whilst bridget fonda is convincing as the greediest wife , who indirectly causes the most problems . 
fill a room full of greedy people and several million dollars , and you will end up with a simple recipe for a blood bath . 
it's not a simple plan , when you shoot everyone you love for money , unless you're the menendez brothers . 
based on the 1960s tv series that i had never seen or heard of before this movie ( be happy , i won't bore you with any lame and unnecessary comparisons ) , this film allows will smith to take a third stab at the independence day weekend box-office , after scoring huge successes with men in black ( 7/10 ) , directed by the same man who controlled this one , and independence day ( 6/10 ) . 
can you say . . . the 
third times not a charm ? 
plot : james west and artemus gordon are chosen by the president to find the man responsible for the kidnapping of the nation's top scientists , and threatening to take over the united states within a week . 
critique : i did not laugh once during this entire picture . 
when you consider that this film is a part-comedy , that's not a very good sign . 
i also did not tense up or particularly enjoy any of its unenergetic action sequences which provided me with little more than a few minutes time to think back to the lovely salma hayek scenes . 
when you consider that the other " part " of this film is geared as an action/adventure , i would say that this another negative sign . 
and when you consider that the first hour of the film was boring and a little slow , the story-line tired , reminiscent of swiss cheese and uninvolving , and the special effects interesting but worth very little inside a plot filled with lame one-liners , weak characterizations and an anti-climactic end , you pretty much have the gist of my impression of this " big " summer blockbuster . 
it blows . 
or as they say in french , " eet blows " . 
could it be that the script was crappy because it took four people to write it ? 
maybe . 
could it be that most of the special effects don't show up until the last half hour , and even then , we don't see anything that its trailers hadn't already given away ? 
perhaps . 
or could it be that we have come to expect so much more from will smith and hollywood big-budget movies , that we cannot help but evaluate them on a scale onto their own ? 
naaaaaaah ! 
a bad movie is a bad movie . 
on a positive note , i could honestly say that i did very much enjoy the lovely performance by the adorable salma hayek , who seemed underused ( in my humble opinion ) , and lit up every bubbly scene that she was hardly in . 
branagh was also fun as the scenery-munching , over-the-top bad guy , but that's pretty much where the entertainment-buck stopped . 
smith and kline were static at best , the plot full of holes , and the score insignificant and derivative of a dozen others . 
i would strongly advise anyone not to see this movie . 
then again , there is that one scene with the lovely salma hayek tied up in a cage . . . huh . . . oh 
yeah , but the rest of the movie sucked . 
little known facts about this film and its stars : will smith has starred in two of the ten all-time top grossing films worldwide : 1997's summer blockbuster men in black ( 7/10 ) , for which he also recorded the grammy-winning title song , and 1996's independence day ( 6/10 ) . 
he once turned down a scholarship to mit to pursue his singing career . 
kevin kline is a graduate of the juilliard school of drama , and has been married to the cute-as-a-button actress phoebe cates since 1989 . 
they have two kids together , greta simone and owen . 
one of the buildings that gets blown up in this film has " kasdan " written on it . 
lawrence kasdan is a director known to have worked with kevin on five of his movies , including the big chill , silverado , i love you to death , grand canyon and french kiss . 
salma hayek gave up a successful career as a major television star in latin america and moved to the united states to start over , even though she spoke no english . 
she made her feature film debut as an actress with a small role in allison anders' mi vida loca ( no , not the rickie martin video ! ) and played her first starring role in robert rodriguez's desperado opposite antonio banderas . 
since then , she has made an appearance in each one of rodriguez's films . 
she stands 5'2 " , was born in southeast mexico , and the daughter of a lebanese father and a mexican mother . 
one of the actresses cast as branagh's lovely but lethal beauties includes bail ling , a stage and screen star in her native china who was last seen starring opposite dick gere in red corner ( 7/10 ) . 
another is dutch-born frederique van der wal , who is one of the world's most recognized supermodels , having graced the cover of cosmopolitan numerous times , as well as harper's bazaar , vogue and mademoiselle . 
in the line of duty is the critically praised series of television movies dealing with the real-life incidents that claimed lives of law enforcement officers in usa . 
the twilight murders , another one from the series , is dealing with the case of gordon kahl ( played by rod steiger ) , old farmer from north dakota who would rather spend a year in prison than pay taxes to the despised u . s . government . 
after being released , he still refuses to pay taxes and the warrant is issued for his arrest . 
when the u . s . marshals come to arrest him , it turns out that kahl isn't alone . 
many poor farmers in rural northwest share his extremist anti-government beliefs , and the routine operation turns into shootout that would leave federal officers that . 
that brings fbi on the scene , and agent mayberly ( michael gross ) is supervising the manhunt . 
however , his efforts seem fruitless , since kahl still has many supporters , some of them even in the local law enforcement . 
after betrayed , 1988 thriller by costa gavras , hollywood mostly ignored the disturbing trends of rising right-wing extremism in the american northwest , and that remained so until oklahoma city bombing , when media hype brought right-wingers back into spotlight . 
until that time , only the television movies like this one bothered to pay attention to that phenomenon . 
unfortunately , the twilight murders is still routine and formulaic television film , that uses sensationalist real life content in order to cover lack of originality in the script . 
sometimes , like many american tv movies , it creates drama where drama shouldn't be . 
on the other hand , film is steadily directed by dick lowry , and rod steiger does good job potraying gordon kahl . 
on the other hand , michael gross as his pursuer is quite wooden and his interaction with some of the actors is terrible . 
however , film does deal with potentially thought-provoking social and political issues , so hour and half spent in front of the screen shouldn't be the total waste of time . 
 * * * the following review contains spoilers * * * 
 " it's just . . . 
the way . . . 
we are . " 
--- a rapist ( matt frewer ) responds to supergirl's ( helen slater ) query as to why she's being attacked , an example of the mind-numbingly bad dialogue in supergirl . 
i'll admit it . . . 
i love superman iii . 
i know it's hated amongst the superman faithful who dismiss it as nothing more than a vehicle for richard pryor , but i still think it's a worthy addition to the man of steel franchise . 
supergirl , a spin-off film of sorts from the series' same producers ( alexander and ilya salkind ) , doesn't even rival superman iii in terms of quality , let alone superman or superman ii . 
supergirl lost me from the opening scenes and went steadily downhill for the rest of its two hour plus running time . 
as the film begins we see the residents of argo city , a commune like place consisting of refugees from krypton which resides in " inner space " , go about their daily lives . 
ok . . . 
what ? 
so these are exiles from krypton , which blew up right ? 
were they living there before krypton exploded ? 
how do you get to " inner space " ? 
this whole " inner space " notion is never explained , particularly in terms of how these people get information from the outside world . 
how do they know where superman went ? 
how do they know he took the name clark kent and now works at the daily planet ? 
these kinds of things frustrate the hell out of me . 
argo city is kept running by a power source called the omegahedron . 
one day the founder of argo city , zaltar ( peter o' toole ) , gives the omegahedron to superman's cousin , kara ( helen slater ) , for use as inspiration in her art . 
kara uses it to create a bug-like thing which immediately crashes through the layer of " whatever " that protects the city . 
in the chaos , the omegahedron sails out through the opening , dooming the argonians to death . . . 
in three days time , or something . 
kara then climbs into a pod which zaltar had designed for interdimensional travel and chases after the omegahedron to save her world . 
the power source travels directly to earth and lands in the bowl of dip belonging to a minor-league witch named selena ( faye dunaway ) who , immediately before her dip was ruined , announced her desires to rule the world to her sometimes warlock boyfriend nigel ( peter cook ) . 
selena somehow knows that this ball from the sky will help her with her evil plans , and she sets out to achieve world domination . 
selena is unaware of course that kara has also arrived on earth , and that she's arrived as supergirl ( complete with appropriate costume ) . 
supergirl emerges from the bottom of a lake when she arrives . 
ok . . . 
huh ? 
why does the omegahedron fall from the sky but supergirl shoots out of the bottom of a lake ? 
attention movie : explain yourself ! 
i'm sorry , i can only suspend disbelief so much . 
i can't buy into any of this nonsense just because the movie wants me to . 
knowing that she needs a secret identity , supergirl basically " wills " herself into a school girl outfit ( complete with a different hairstyle ) , picks the alias linda lee and enrolls into school . 
she's given her dorm assignment , and who happens to be her roommate ? 
lois lane's sister , lucy . 
ok , coincidence is one thing folks , but we're getting really contrived now . 
what follows are some generic all-girls school hijinks . . . 
complete with evil bully girls ( mean for no reason , of course ) and even a shower scene ( ! ) . 
best moment though comes when supergirl decides to put a bra on over her school uniform and starts stuffing it with socks . 
at this point i'm rapidly wondering why i'm bothering with this nonsense . 
there is some credit to give to the film however . 
one lengthy and elaborate sequence featuring an " evil " bulldozer destroying a small town in search of its " prey " is very well done . 
also , its commendable to see genders reversed in the film , whereas the women have all the power and the men are merely objects and tools . 
hart bochner ( die hard ) is particularly fun as kara's love interest , a lovesick landscaper who is under a spell cast by selena ( although he is unfortunately part of one of the film's more ridiculous moments , when he has to be rescued from being tapped by some " menacing " bumper cars ) . 
then there were numerous little things that bothered me . 
the flying effects are never convincing for a moment . . . 
it's all too obvious that helen slater is hooked to wires . 
instead of having her look like she's flying , the filmmakers wanted her to be " graceful " , so she poses a lot and does ballet-type maneuvers . 
also , who are the first two humans to meet supergirl when she arrives on earth ? 
a pair of truck drivers/rapists who immediately attack her and then meet a " wacky " demise . 
there is also some rampant product placement in the film , most notably for popeye's , tylenol , and a&w root beer , with the latter actually putting its logo on the t-shirt of one of the rapists ( ? ! ) . 
finally , just one word : monsters . 
faye dunaway and peter o'toole ham it up unmercifully , however when o'toole overacts he's entertaining and when dunaway does it she's annoying ( her character actually says the line " seize them ! " 
at one point ) . 
dunaway's henchmen ( played by peter cook and brenda vaccaro ) fare much better , with vaccaro coming off best as the equivalent of ned beatty's otis character from the first two superman movies . 
helen slater effectively portrays supergirl as the innocent , naive character she's written to be , as she's able to gaze at flowers and bunnies with the right amount of genuine wonder to make it believable . 
believability aside though , it's still annoying . 
now despite all this negativity ( and i'm not alone here . . . supergirl is not a well liked nor a well respected movie in many circles ) , leave it to the good people at anchor bay entertainment to actually make people not only interested , but excited about its release on dvd ! 
they have released two separate editions of the film on dvd , to the delight of many people ( including myself . . . 
yet i'm still unclear as to why , since this movie is so awful ) . 
the first and most widely available dvd release features the international version of the film which runs 10 minutes longer than the print which ran in u . s . theaters . 
the movie is presented in its original theatrical aspect ratio of 2 . 35 : 1 , is enhanced for 16x9 televisions , and has been remastered in full thx glory . 
extras on the disc include : a full length audio commentary track with director jeannot szwarc and " special project consultant " scott michael bosco , the excellent 50-minute documentary from 1984 called supergirl-the making of a feature ( dig that workout montage ! ) , 5 trailers , 3 tv spots , talent bios , in-depth storyboards ( accompanied by score from the movie ) , and assorted still galleries . 
the transfer on this international version is incredible . . . 
you'd think you were watching a new release . 
images are sharp , colors jump off the screen , and the picture is free of scratches or artifacts . 
only some special effects sequences show the wear of time , and there just isn't much that can be done about that ( unless you're obsessive like george lucas ) . 
the new thx approved audio is loud and clear in all the right places , however you'll be hearing absurd dialogue and a mediocre jerry goldsmith score ( which is completely unrelated to john williams' classic superman theme and sounds better suited for a cannon films' golan-globus production ) . 
the commentary track featuring director szwarc and project consultant bosco is a step in the right direction in the evolution of audio commentaries . 
bosco seems to be an expert in all things supergirl and is there with szwarc to ensure that there's no dead air on the track . 
bosco probes szwarc for information on virtually everyone and everything that comes onscreen , and we learn a great deal more about the film as a result of his participation . 
although , at times you can tell that bosco is looking for a specific response from szwarc , and is surprised when he doesn't get that response . 
we learn some fascinating tidbits on the track , most notably the " almost " appearance in the film by christopher reeve . 
great detail is given about superman's proposed role in the original script before reeve ( wisely ) dropped out . 
as it stands , superman is written off early on in the film when we hear a radio broadcast mention that he is billions of light years away on some sort of peace mission . 
for the sake of brevity , i won't even get into that one . 
szwarc also reveals that is was the conscious decision of the salkinds ( and everyone else agreed ) that supergirl needed to stand on its own , replacing the science fiction of the superman films with cutsy " whimsical fantasy " nonsense . 
bosco also points out scenes not in the american release as they come along , claiming that had they been in the original release it would have been a hit at the box office . 
again , for the sake of brevity , i won't even get into that one . 
anchor bay has also released a limited edition ( only 50 , 000 copies pressed ) two-disc set . 
disc one contains everything mentioned for the regular release . 
disc two features the never before seen director's cut of the film , which runs 138 minutes long . 
the additions mainly consist of scene extensions which don't add much of note , except for a few moments which lengthen peter o'toole's screen time ( particularly during his latter appearances ) . 
the print is rough in spots and the sound is only in mono , but fans of the film won't care . 
one question though . . . 
shouldn't the director's commentary be on the director's cut of the film ? 
i'd never seen supergirl before i sat down to watch this dvd . 
i was nine when it was released to theaters , and even then i was smart enough to inform my parents not to take me to see it . 
so when i popped the dvd into my player and sat down in my easy chair i had no idea what to expect . 
i knew the film wasn't beloved and i never had any interest in it before , but i was willing to give it a shot because of the impressive amount of work put into the disc . 
as the disc began to spin i was rather impressed with the opening sequence , which made me sit up and wonder if my assumptions all this time could have been wrong . 
come to find out however it was just the chase digital stereo logo . . . 
so i slunk back into my seat as the nightmare started . 
at the end of the film , supergirl flies back into the lake with the omegahedron , and flies back to argo city . 
ugh , i give up . 
i'm surprised i even made it to the end of the film not once , not twice , but three times to review these discs . 
supergirl is definitely a terrific dvd package , but a very lousy movie . 
[pg] 
 " practical magic , " is a film that is so misguided in so many ways that it makes you wonder how such talented and high-profile actors would even get involved in an embarrassing clap-trap like this one . 
the film stars sandra bullock and nicole kidman as sally and gillian owens , two sisters whose family comes from a long line of witches , spanning back 200 years . 
at the start , their parents die when they are still children , and they go to live with their two zany aunts ( stockard channing and dianne wiest ) . 
switch to the present day , gillian , who is the stronger , more rebellious sibling , leaves home , and meets up with a dark , abusive guy ( goran visjnic ) , while sally stays in their hometown , meets and falls in love with a sweet , caring man , has two children , and then is devastated when her husband is hit by a truck and killed ( come to think of it , she's not too devastated since she gets over it in about two minutes ) . 
when gillian calls sally to come get her after having another abusive spat with visjnic , they accidentally murder him , and in desperation , bury the body in the backyard of their aunts' house . 
add to this wildly convoluted story subplots involving the dead rising and an exorcism , not to mention a spattering of " light-hearted whimsy , " and you have a pretty good idea how messy " practical magic " is . 
after seeing the film , i reflected that there was not even one scene , or element , that i liked or enjoyed . 
it is a comedy , to be sure , but all of the humor falls astoundingly flat , and the occasional dramatic moments are the least bit touching . 
it is not charming or entertaining in any way . 
and then to top it off , we've got this dark , but bird-brained story of an evil spirit taking over gillian's body . 
whatever . 
the characters are handled terribly , and actually , most of the actors do not have the fortune of even getting to be what you could call a character . 
there is no reason why channing and wiest should have decided to be in this film , and in every scene involving them , they are always standing side-by-side . 
no attempt is made to flesh them out into actual people . 
the same goes for aidan quinn , as a handsome police investigator , who has the misfortune of being the romantic lead opposite bullock , even though he comes into it at around the 70-minute mark , and once again , there is no attempt to develop their relationship , or his character , in any way . 
in fact , every line of dialogue in the film is in service of moving the plot along , rather than getting to know the people saying the lines . 
i should have know i was headed for trouble during the opening credits , when i found out the screenplay was written by the deeply hated akiva goldsman , who managed to destroy the " batman " series with " batman forever " and " batman and robin . " 
 " practical magic " is directed by griffin dunne , primarily an actor , who last year made the contrived , clumsy romance , " addicted to love , " with meg ryan and matthew broderick . 
i disliked that movie quite a bit , but since " practical magic " is even worse , that can only give you a taste of what a talentless filmmaker he is . 
i'd tell him to quit while he's ahead , but in these last two years , he's ultimately already buried himself . 
nearly every film tim burton has directed has been an homage to the horror genre -- " frankenweenie , " " beetlejuice , " " batman , " " edward scissorhands , " " ed wood , " " mars attacks ! " 
-- yet none of them have been horror films . 
 " sleepy hollow " is his first attempt to actually scare people . 
i greeted the prospect with high anticipation ; burton's whole career seemed to be leading up to this . 
i left disappointed . 
andrew kevin walker's screenplay takes only the character names from the classic short story " the legend of sleepy hollow . " 
in the movie ichabod crane ( johnny depp ) is a new york city police constable who is trying to introduce scientific methods of investigation to his superiors . 
ichabod is dispatched to the small town of sleepy hollow to investigate a series of murders . 
several of the town's leading citizens have been decapitated by the headless horseman . 
although he rejects the ghost story the town elders tell him , ichabod finds that the facts of the case confound his scientific reasoning . 
he also discovers that the killings are not random , that the victims are tied together by a secret . 
along the way ichabod gets help from a bewitching ( literally ) young woman ( christina ricci ) and the son of one of the murder victims ( marc pickering ) . 
my reaction : ho-hum . 
the plot is an accumulation of cliches without even the slightest touch of originality to make it interesting . 
that in itself is forgivable ; hollywood constantly tries to sell us used products in new packages . 
however , burton's attempts at inducing fright come off as goofy . 
it might be his background -- in his previous movies , goofy was the goal . 
along the same lines , it doesn't help that creature designer ( and producer ) kevin yagher has done his best work for the tongue-in-cheek tales from the crypt tv series . 
a witch's eyes and tongue shoot out like roger rabbit's , a tree spurts blood like it's in a monty python sketch , and the headless horseman . 
 . 
 . 
well , he's a guy without a head . 
 . 
 . 
on a horse ( boo ! ) . 
the performances are also awful . 
although he's impressed me with his work in other films , depp doesn't seem to know what to do with ichabod , and his dialogue is hampered by stilted diction that's supposed to pass for an 18th century accent . 
ricci seems to put all her effort into seeming enigmatic , which guarantees that we won't sympathize with her character . 
the actor who is revealed at the end to be the villain comes off as ridiculously cartoonish . 
the only pleasure generated by the cast comes from surprise cameos by christopher lee , martin landau , and christopher walken . 
i wonder if this movie was originally conceived as part of francis ford coppola's projected series of gothic adaptations , a series that produced only " bram stoker's dracula " and " mary shelley's frankenstein . " 
coppola is an executive producer for " sleepy hollow , " and the script reflects his interest in early forms of " moving pictures , " particularly in a toy that ichabod carries which blends two pictures to create an optical illusion . 
 ( there's a bird on one side of the card , a cage on the other . 
when the card is flipped rapidly , the bird appears to be caged . ) 
bottom line : the hollow isn't the only thing that's sleepy . 
annie wilson ( cate blanchett ) , a widow who struggles to raise her children in a small town in georgia is asked for help by local authorities in solving the case of a missing woman . 
annie is something of a psychic , she has involuntary bouts with the supernatural where she can see the past and the future and physically feel the actions happenning to her she envisions . 
her " gift " leads to the arrest of a nasty wife beater who may or may not have killed the pretty rich girl found in the swamp on his property . 
in an ultra conservative backwoods town will her testimony based on her psychic visions hold up in court ? 
do they even have the right man ? 
what's good about it : 
aside from keanu reeves giving one of the best performances of his career as the loathable redneck donnie barksdale , there is little else going for the film . 
what's not so good about it : 
lame , unoriginal screenplay . 
predictable ending . 
suspense scenes that are just plain boring . 
ridicously trite characterization makes the entire south out to be ingnorant , hateful goobers . 
relentless in its emotional sensationaliztion . 
overall critique : 
 " the gift " is one of those movies that makes you wonder where you've seen this story before . 
it's a collection of every cliche and stereotype of the south ever made , and coming from a yankee like me who dislikes the south that's really saying something . 
for an established , talented director sam raimi is unable to provide any kind of originality to this film . 
it's predictable from the first scene , the screenplay is written like a rip-off of a photocopied bootlegged play . 
you know that as nasty as the murder suspect is he didn't actually do it . 
it's no surprise either who the real villain turns out to be and what their motive was . 
sigh , how trite . 
for a supernatural thriller this is neither scary nor intense because it's so cliche . 
 " the gift " is basically a glorified b-movie . 
note : some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers . 
be forewarned . 
i was incredulous when i first heard that mgm was planning a sequel to their 1995 science-fiction flick species . 
squandering an intriguing premise , the original film turned out to be a dreadful mess , widely disliked by both audiences and critics alike -- and nonetheless still somehow succeeded in becoming a financial success , raking in over $60 million domestic during the competitive summer season despite a distinct lack of star power in its cast ( ben kingsley's a splendid actor , but a marquee name he ain't ) . 
miraculously dodging the bullet with the first film , i doubted that they'd dare tempt fate and go for another round . 
so here comes species ii , with a new creative team ( director peter medak and screenwriter chris brancato step in for roger donaldson and dennis feldman , respectively ) that fails to improve the series one iota -- like its predecessor , species ii fails to capitalize on a potentially promising kernel and instead runs the gamut from ridiculously silly to unmitigatedly stupid . 
the film follows the exploits of a young man , patrick ross ( justin lazard ) , whose sole focus is on cruising along the streets in order to pick up women , loitering in strip clubs , and generally trying to bed as many different ladies as he possibly can . 
in other words , patrick is like a lot of guys ; these activities could describe the everyday routines of a huge percentage of men his age , but there's a catch -- he's an astronaut who recently returned from a seemingly successful mission to mars , and who's now infected with alien dna . 
patrick's overriding compulsion : to mate and sire countless numbers of gooey little alien offspring . 
and when he becomes aware of eve ( natasha henstridge ) , a half-human , half-alien clone of the monster from the first film being studied in a government lab , patrick's primary focus turns to her -- " if these two were to mate , the resulting pure strain of offspring would be unstoppable " warns dr . laura baker ( marg helgenberger , gamely reprising her role ) with admirable conviction . 
species ii opens with the mars mission , and the space scenes are remarkably unconvincing and hokey-looking , even splicing back to dated , grainy footage of actual spacecraft activities -- they really skimped on production values this time around . 
however , this all looks positively inspired when compared to the first appearance of the evil alien goo which ultimately infests patrick ; watching as it slinks around the command module of the spaceship , any question as to whether or not this is a cheesy b-movie is quickly answered . 
mr . brancato's original screenplay is filled with outrageous lines which often leaves the audience in stitches . 
like the first film ( and perhaps in homage to it ) , there's a real penchant for dialogue which underlines the obvious . 
last time around featured the hootworthy line uttered by forest whitaker's psychic empath character upon entering a bloodsoaked room -- " something bad happened here . " 
this time , laura gets to stand over a fresh , shredded corpse with its entails ripped out and mutter " this is awful . " 
and she's not even empathic ! 
and when a psychotically horny patrick accosts a supermarket shopper and drags her kicking and screaming behind the building in a woefully-paced suspense sequence , eve , who's telepathically linked to her alien/human-hybrid counterpart ( whatever ) , helpfully tells our alien-hunting protagonists , " he's going to rape her . " 
while species ii is often unintentionally hilarious , at least it occasionally demonstrates a sense of humour of its own . 
there's an amusing , tongue-in-cheek bit of product placement ( which doesn't really make much sense , but i appreciated the sentiment ) , as well as some supermarket-related hijinx ( " he's in aisle 1 ! " 
informs eve ) . 
if the film maintained this sort of light-hearted tone , it would have been much more charming and enjoyable to watch , but , to its detriment , it instead takes its silly plot far too seriously and barrels along to a bloody , effects-ladened anticlimactic conclusion . 
much of the film fails to make a whole lot of sense , and there are such gaping plot holes that it's terribly difficult to contain any suspension of disbelief . 
the implausibilities are endless : what about the toxic bomb in eve's brain ? 
why are the guards armed with guns when they already know firearms are ineffectual ? 
my favourite was the slow-motion sequence in the film where eve , sporting superhuman strength , is shown tossing aside guards who are attempting to contain her with what look like body blocks . 
this is the sort of movie which leaves you holding your head in amazed disbelief , incredulous that it's being foisted upon the public . 
returning headlines michael madsen ( who reprises tough guy press lennox ) and ms . helgenberger do what they can with this goofy screenplay , but there's realistically only so much one can do with this script as a basis . 
mykelti williamson ( portraying astronaut dennis gamble ) churns out an all-too-familiar spin on a generic brash-mouthed character , and fine character actors george dzundza ( playing colonel burgess and looking ridiculous in the process ) and james cromwell ( patrick's neglectful father , senator ross ) are utterly wasted in the film . 
mr . lazard gives his character an appropriately shifty-eyed look , while returning vixen ms . henstridge is actually given the opportunity to act in one scene ( and acquits herself nicely ) , but is mostly relegated to reprising her familiar role of parading about in skimpy clothing ( or none at all ) . 
ms . henstridge recently commented on how some female audiences have expressed appreciation for her character in the first entry of the species series , claiming that " she's so empowered . " 
a lethal half-alien in heat who dispatches of her sexual partners in grotesque fashion -- now * that's * what i call empowerment . 
the sequel to the fugitive ( 1993 ) , u . s marshals is an average thriller using it's association with the fugitive just so it can make a few extra bucks . 
tommy lee jones returns to his role as chief deputy samuel gerard , the grizzly cop who was after harrison ford in the fugitive . 
this time , he's after fugitive mark sheridan ( snipes ) who the police think killed two fbi agents , but of course he's been set up , and when the police plane escort he ( and gerard ) are riding crashes , he makes a run for it , gerard not so hot on his tail . 
what follows is about 2 hours of action , brought to us by the director of executive decision ( 1995 ) , another film curiously involving a plane . 
when comparing this movie to the fugitive , the prequel is far superior . 
but even on it's own , u . s marshals is a pretty lousy movie . 
while the original was reasonably intelligent , and had a fugitive to root for , the audience feels strangely distanced from snipes fugitive , mainly because we know so little about him until way into the film's overlong running time . 
while the fugitive gave a little time to develop harrison fords character , u . s marshals is straight in there , pulling it's trump card ( the place crash ) almost immediately . 
to be honest , i couldn't care less if snipe's character got captured or not . 
snipes performance is average , and his character gets surprisingly little screen time ( considering he is the fugitive ) for reasons i'll explain later . 
tommy lee jones is as fine as ever , although his role is hardly a challenge . 
the sense of deja vu was overwhelming . 
i know it's the same role from the fugitive , but there is seemingly no attempt to develop his character from the last film . 
there's a few 'nudge nudge' references from the first film , but apart from that , nothing . 
nobody even mentions harrison ford in this movie . 
downey jnr is ok as fbi agent john royce who's roped into the chase , and sexy french actress irene jacob wanders in and out of the movie as snipes wife . 
nobody looks as if their having a good time , and all the performers are on autopilot . 
the supporting cast are o . k , but when it comes to performances , u . s marshals falls flat on it's face . 
it doesn't fare any better plot-wise , either . 
the film starts off with gerard trying to capture snipes , but then veers off into terrorists territory . 
as said above , the film is an normal , average terrorist thriller , seen a million times before , but is using the fugitive reputation to make it sound more professional . 
if this film wasn't the 'sequel' to the fugitive , this would probably go straight to video , or not even been made at all , because it's so average . 
and because of the film's plot changing it's course , snipes is almost forgotten apart , and hardly features in the movie . 
stuart baird , the director , is all right , but there's no particular scene that stands out . 
it's director is the usual action movie style . 
even the plane crash is sorely lacking in tension . 
the special effects are nice , especially the plane crash , and there's a good ( if very loud ) soundtrack by veteran composer jerry goldsmith . 
but in the end , u . s marshals suffers from an overwhelmingly lack of excitement . 
sure , it's loud and dumb , but in the end u . s marshals just ain't fun . 
bored performers and a lackluster plot and script , do not make a good action movie . 
overall rating= review by david wilcock web space provided by geocities 
one of the contributors to the destruction of the batman film franchise chris o'donnell stars in this remake of buster keaton's 1925 silent film seven chances . 
now i've never seen seven chances , as i'm more of a chaplin fan than a keaton fan , but i seriously doubt that the classic version could be as insipid as this . 
o'donnell plays jimmie shannon , the manager of a pool table manufacturing company . 
he also fears commitment , and despite dating anne ( renee zellweger ) for over three years , he's unwilling to marry her . 
his reasons ? 
well he's a guy you see , and well , guys are like stallions , and they apparently don't like to be roped or something ( hey , that's the movie's explanation . . . 
i'd marry renee zellweger in a second ) . 
eventually it comes time for jimmie to propose , and when he does , it's the most absurd proposal ever uttered by a man ever . 
he essentially says to her , " you win " and hands her a ring . 
the audience should now hate this character . 
i did . 
then the meat of the plot presents itself . 
jimmie's grandfather ( peter ustinov , completely wasted ) dies and leaves jimmie his entire estate of 100 million dollars as well as ownership of the pool table business . 
however , in order to get the money and save the jobs of the factory workers , jimmie must be married before his next birthday ( which is just over 24 hours away ) . 
having blown his chances with anne , jimmie proceeds to track down all his prior girlfriends and suggest a " business proposition " . 
the movie wasn't half bad by this time , surprisingly . 
it wasn't boring me , and even managed to read my thoughts at one point . 
ustinov's character left a video will , and while he's reading the ridiculous clause in it , i thought to myself " what is this , brewster's millions ? " . 
as soon as i thought it , hal holbrook's character actually says " what is this , brewster's millions ? " 
it was quite surreal . 
something happens though during the film's final act that caused me to sharply drop the rating it was going to receive . 
up to that point , all of jimmie's prior girlfriends had turned down his " business proposition " which i felt was good . 
at least the film wasn't painting women to be cold hearted gold diggers . 
when jimmie has no other options , his goofy friend ( played by artie lange , making a career out of playing the goofy friend ) places an ad in the newspaper that somehow becomes a front page story . 
at this point , 100 , 000 women don wedding gowns and head off to persuade jimmie to pick them to be his bride . 
these women arrive at jimmie's location and immediately start bullying him about what he's looking for in a woman . 
when he's had enough of their unjustified attacks , he tells the angry mob that there's been a mistake and he won't be marrying any of them . 
as a result , the women proceed to chase him around the city , in hopes of catching him and tearing his limbs off . 
this goes on for the rest of the film . 
it's just chris o'donnell running from 100 , 000 obnoxious , greedy , angry and stupid women . 
my groans of disgust could be heard for miles . 
the film finally ended ( thankfully ) , but to this day i'm still groaning . 
the bachelor is available on dvd from new line home video . 
it contains the film in both full frame and in its original theatrical aspect ratio of 1 . 85 : 1 , cast and crew info , and special dvd-rom features . 
the original theatrical trailer is also on the disc , which contains scenes not in the film . 
apparently there was even more footage of the gang of brides chasing o'donnell around the city , and at one point o'donnell is leaping from the tops of buses . 
so that was bad enough to be cut , but the other 30 minutes of bride shenanigans was good ? 
ugh . 
the happy bastard's quick movie review 
holy man 
more like holy crap . 
the film stars eddie murphy as a mystical-ish figure named g on a strange journey of some sort when he comes across two network execs ( jeff goldblum and kelly preston ) with a flat tire on their hands . 
somehow he ends up in their car and on their channel , a line-up of infomercial programs featuring the likes of betty white , morgan fairchild , and a slew of other celebrities and nameless figures . 
it's here that he seems to hit his stride , speaking of life instead and somehow boosting sales . 
at this point in the movie , of course , morality comes into play , particularly on goldblum , who suddenly feels he can market the magical g into megabucks to get in good with his boss ( robert loggia ) . 
it doesn't take long for the movie to unfold into sappy mush , with realizations taking place left and right and poor plot points . 
only a real zippy sequence involving frying morgan fairchild's face seems to have any interest in the movie . 
murphy lends nothing to his character and poor goldblum looks as if he'd rather be someplace else . 
some may argue that the movie has a message , but all that came across to me is that i could probably get more entertainment watching that informercial with the guy in the question mark coat . 
at least he has something for us to laught at . . . 
forget get carter . 
instead . . . 
get me a cup of coffee . 
what the hell has happened to all good american action movies ? 
did i unknowingly miss a meeting somewhere ? 
when did all of the bad-ass , kicking butt and taking names , gun-toting , crazed , vengeful characters of the 1980's -- from such films as commando , cobra , predator , raw deal , first blood -- suddenly turn into innocent , compassionate , sensitive , teary-eyed knuckleheads . 
the only place to turn these days for an honest action film is towards the east -- and i don't mean new york city . 
get carter -- the latest masterpiece from uber-thespian sylvester stallone -- is a prime example of large and in charge 80's action stars trying to fit back into action roles they have long since outgrown . 
stallone seems like that one uncle you have who tries to be cool with his members only jacket and izod polo shirt with the collar popped up . 
a few years ago , stallone made a movie that gave him the opportunity to gracefully exit the roles that typecast him as an action monkey . 
that role was sheriff freddy heflin in copland -- a strange film about redemption within a broken soul . 
stallone actually gave an amazing performance and it seemed he had shaken off the past . 
too bad get carter returns stallone to action , but with the shiny paint rusted off on the edges . 
get carter is a simple story . 
stallone plays frank carter , a vegas bruiser for a loan shark ( played with amazing gusto by the uncredited voice of actor tom sizemore ) . 
when frank's brother gets himself killed in a drunk driving accident , frank , feeling all guilty and mushy inside , thinks foul play is involved and travels to seattle to set right all the wrongs with the patented " carter's way " . 
he talks tough with his brother's wife , lends a helping had to his brother's daughter doreen ( rachel leigh cook ) , and walks around seattle in the pouring rain dressed like a lost member of the rat pack with a really bad goatee . 
carter finds out that his brother was involved in some bad stuff with a slimy porn king played by ultra-cool , mcqueen-esque mickey rourke , a multi-millionaire computer geek ( alan cumming ) , and a strange foreign guy ( michael caine ) who speaks in riddles and talks tough . 
carter stalks all of them while trying to figure out who did in his brother and how to extract proper revenge on the responsible parties . 
what a minute ! 
this sounds just like another film i saw last year , the limey . 
better not tell terence stamp about stallone ripping him off . 
actually , get carter is a remake of the 1971 british production of the same name , starring caine in the title role ( and what with his cameo here , the cleverness is astonishing ) . 
while stallone still carries his own weight here , the movie lacks what the original did as well : purpose . 
throughout the film , stallone looks like an old guy trying to act tough , while nobody is taking him seriously . 
his one-liners fall flat , and he seems tired and uncertain of all the actions , mental and physical , required of his character . 
there is even a strange homoeroticism between rourke and stallone that lends a bizarre tone to their numerous conversations -- in both fists and words . 
the biggest surprise in get carter is that the best job done in the film is by the versatile mickey rourke . 
an amazing method actor in the eighties who fell into drugs , spousal abuse , a boxing career , and an intolerable attitude towards not getting his way , rourke still brings a dangerous sense of purpose to his porn king character . 
he may not win any oscars , but he still ranks highly in my book . 
get carter has great directing , strong acting by rourke and caine , and energetic car chases that would make william friedkin proud . 
the only thing it lacks - as with most hollywood productions -- is a good script and proper casting . 
never mind that it should never have been made at all . 
a remake of the 1978 warren beatty vehicle " heaven can wait " ( which in turn was a remake of " here comes mr . jordan " ) , " down to earth " tells the tale of lance barton ( chris rock , " lethal weapon iv " ) , a young black standup comic trying to win over the audience at harlem's apollo theater . 
when he's taken to heaven prematurely by bumbling angel keyes ( eugene levy , " best in show " ) , his only recourse is to return in another body . 
he chooses that of charles wellington , the tenth richest man in the united states . 
of course , wellington is not only rich , but white and 53 years old , which makes lance's bid for closing night at the apollo , as well as his desire to woo suntee ( regina taylor , " jerry maguire " ) , a tad tricky . 
the original elaine may/warren beatty script has been reworked by chris rock , lance crouther , ali leroi , and louis c . k . 
to turn beatty's vehicle as a football player into rock's vehicle as a comic and add some racial humor . 
as directed by chris weitz and paul weitz ( codirectors of " american pie " and costars of " chuck & buck " ) , the whole affair comes off as amateur hour . 
initial scenes play like filmed line reading rehearsals . 
production values are shoddy . 
most serious of all is the use of rock when his wellington counterpart would have been more appropriate . 
this problem is clearly attributable to the fact that the old white guy is never lip or action synched when he is on screen . 
rock does get the chance to do some fun schtick , such as his turnaround on wellington's plans for a poor neighborhood hospital ( 'bullet in the head ? 
you got a bed ! ' ) , but he's uneven when interacting with the rest of the cast . 
regina taylor fares well amidst the mediocrity as the young activist who confusedly ends up falling for the man she believed to be her nemesis . 
also good is frankie faison ( " hannibal " ) as whitney , lance's compassionate manager - the only human who's made privy to lance's body body switch . 
chaz palminteri and levy are pretty much wasted as heaven's ambassadors . 
another " best in show " alumnus , jennifer coolidge , is poorly used as wellington's cheating wife ( and shown several days apart wearing the same outfit ? ! ) and greg germann ( tv's " ally mcbeal , " " sweet november " ) continues display his sitcom roots as her lover and husband's lawyer . 
mark addy ( " the full monty " ) is sorely underutilized as cisco , wellington's fake english butler . 
stealing the show in every scene she's in is wanda sykes ( " the chris rock show " ) as wellington's disgruntled maid . 
 " down to earth " is for chris rock fans only . 
all others should go rent " heaven can wait " or truly be brought down to earth . 
what would you do if no one could see you ? 
well , if you're a super smart bio-molecular research scientist working for the military , you'd grope a co-worker and rough-up your neighbor from across the street . 
that's right . 
of all the non-criminal possibilities brought about by rendering oneself invisible , in " hollow man " kevin bacon's character opts to commit sex crimes . 
er , it's kevin bacon who plays the super smart military bio-molecular research scientist ? 
something sounds horribly wrong already . 
but this is a paul verhoeven film , and the sleazepin director of such open-crotch classics as " basic instinct " and the infamous " showgirls " never lets a little credibility get in the way of his voyeuristic tendencies which , when you come right down to it , is all this film is about . 
 " hollow man " features a string of hapless , c-list actors ( among them bacon , elisabeth shue , josh brolin , and kim dickens ) in a grade-z plot with a lot of special effects that , frankly , don't look much better than those used in the 1933 version of " the invisible man . " 
oh bacon glistens when he gets wet all right and looks like a rather fatty side of cheap flank steak when he's attempting reentry but otherwise it's lots of " thermal " shots and inanimate objects ( elisabeth shue included ) bobbing around without any visible signs of support . 
since invisibility , once achieved , isn't much of an effect ( the actors spend half their time conversing with nobody and the other half of their time talking to each other--it amounts to much of a muchness ) , the director elects to wardrobe all of his female protagonists in loosely-buttoned sweaters so that the minute bacon's character gets invisible he can head straight for them . 
it's as if that fascinating concept--what would you do if no one could see you ? --is 
simply a verhoeven ploy to show some skin . 
as a horror film , " hollow man " is unsophisticated and disturbing ( in its intent , not its achievements ) and not worth your time or your hard-earned dollars . 
it's minor verhoeven--and even that's not saying much--and boy is it hollow . 
roger ebert asks in his review of sexy beast , " who would have guessed that the most savage mad-dog frothing gangster in recent movies would be played by . . . 
ben kingsley ? " 
my response would be that anyone who has seen alan arkin in wait until dark , henry fonda in once upon a time in the west , or anthony hopkins in the silence of the lambs should have guessed it . 
they should know that the way for a film to create a really creepy sociopath is cast someone who generally plays mild , sympathetic , or even ineffectual character roles . 
the same characteristics that make an actor seem gentle in most of his roles can work in his favor when a role calls for him to be fierce and vicious . 
that is the principle that works for kingsley in sexy beast . 
gary " gal " dove ( played by ray winstone ) has retired from a london career of crime and is living on a luxurious villa in spain . 
life has become a routine of sunning himself and relaxing . 
but his paradise is about to be shattered by a one-two-punch . 
the first punch is a boulder that comes rolling down the hill next to the villa . 
the second punch comes from gal's past . 
back in london gang boss teddy bass ( ian mcshane , tv's lovejoy ) is planning to break into a safety deposit room in a bank and he wants gal . 
he sends his most rabid henchman don logan ( ben kingsley ) to fetch gal . 
don will accept any decision gal makes from " yes " to " certainly . " 
however , if gal says " no " don will do whatever it takes to turn it into a yes including threatening guy's ex-porn- star wife deedee ( amanda redman ) . 
in the meantime don knows just how to get under everybody's skin . 
kingsley makes don a compact package of fury and nastiness . 
there are some serious problems in louis mellis's and david scinto's script that should have been caught before filming . 
when we see the actual crime we have no idea why gal was so important to its success . 
beyond an ability to use skin-diving gear , no special talents are required of him . 
any local hood could have done what gal is needed for . 
additionally the crime involves digging from a swimming pool to the bank vault , flooding the vault . 
no only could they have let the water out of the pool and avoided the complication altogether , but there is by far too much water to be accounted for by what was in the pool . 
in spite of the provocative title , the story is cliched and overly familiar . 
i know i have seen all the plot elements of sexy beast in old westerns like the law and jake wade . 
the story is usually of the reformed outlaw , a robert taylor type , who has hung up his guns and is trying for a life of peaceful respectability . 
the old gang , however , wants to do one more job with their old buddy and sends a rabid richard widmark type to go and git ? im . 
it is not a great plot . 
in sexy beast even the plot twists have gray beards . 
perhaps the film has a little more respectability because it was made not as a western but as a stylish british gangster film . 
it is an old plot dressed up to look new . 
if the plot is old , at least the style is creative . 
this is director jonathan glazer's first film , but he has reputedly done some notable tv ads for guinness stout . 
his style does have some unexpected touches including some very odd dream sequences . 
cinematographer ivan bird uses a lot of half lit scenes . 
we see one side of a person's faces . 
but the other side fades into the darkness , a sort of metaphor for the half-world these characters in-habit . 
half of everything that is happening is also kept hidden . 
us yanks will have a hard time with some of the dialog . 
at least in my theater it was difficult to make out the words with the quiet speaking , the heavy accents , and the cockney language . 
sexy beast is a very and familiar minor plot lent respectability in the us by being done in what is here a still somewhat novel genre , the london crime film . 
the plot may be new to british crime films , but it would be overly familiar as a western . 
further respectability comes from ben kingsley's high-powered performance . 
i give it a 4 on the 0 to 10 scale and a 0 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
apparantly money talks . 
 . 
 . 
and uses quite a bit of obscenities doing so ! 
i've always considered myself pretty open about the gratuity a film can possess , whether in language , violence , sex , or what have you . 
i find that this fact gives me a little more leverage to complain when a movie goes overboard , and money talks definitely does ! 
it's not so much that the movie swore nearly constantly ( and i mean constantly ! ) , but it swore so much that it seemed overly prominent and way too staged . 
perhaps if one character were foul mouthed , but in this film , everybody swears nearly every other word . 
money talks is about a black ticket scalper named franklin hatchett ( played less annoyingly than expected by chris tucker ) . 
franklin is your typical con-man and ends up with more than one person out to get him . 
when the plot finally gets underway , there's no less than three people ( or groups ) that want him , dead or alive . 
the frenchman who's somewhat responsible for franklin's escape from a prisoner-packed bus , a hoodlum whom franklin owes seven grand , and the cops who wrongly suspect him of murder . 
franklin's only hope : james russell ( charlie sheen ) , an investigative reporter for the local news who's out to prove himself a worthy journalist . 
james offers to help clear franklin's name if franklin will just allow him an exclusive report to help channel 12 conquer sweeps week . 
both of these elements are completely lost along the way however , and never do reappear . 
as expected , the odd couple of franklin and james do wind up friends at the end , which is another wasted element seeing as how they show no signs of becoming friends at any point along the way . 
there is just nothing original or intriguing about this film , and so many developments are either non-relevant , or just plain forgotten about . 
money talks is a paint-by-numbers movie that lacks any real involvment with the audience . 
frivilous dialogue , a predictable , flat storyline , and two-dimensional characters make money talks a reason to save your money . 
starting with the little mermaid and most recently the lion king , the walt disney company once again proved that they could not only consistently make modern day animated classics , but were particularly in touch with what the general viewing public--particularly kids-- wanted to see . 
therefore , it's with some surprise that as a big fan of the above mentioned movies i was so disappointed with pocahontas . 
despite some innovation and risk taking , the story is surprisingly straightforward and dramatized in broad strokes , as are its characters . 
a group of englishmen lead by the evil governor ratcliffe come to the new world in search of gold with no regard for the " savages " that live there . 
the natives look upon the english with just as much fear and distrust . 
only the love between the beautifully structured pocahontas and the dashing captain john smith can prevent a terrible clash . 
the ending , as it turns out , is not entirely a happy one and is one of the film's finer moments . 
the characters are mixtures of stereotypes and lack any real depth . 
governor ratcliffe , for instance , is a snobbish , single-minded bore whose mere appearance is supposed to bring about hisses . 
captain john smith is a blond hunk who , while " slightly " misguided , is good at heart . 
pocahontas herself is the typical disney heroine who is practically being forced to marry a man who everyone but her likes and finds the man of her dreams just in time . 
she even comes complete with insignificant best friend . 
again , against tradition , talking animals aren't used , but a lusty , wizened , talking tree is . 
this is an odd compromise , but it's one of the few elements that really work . 
the animals are a delight , and what brief time their interactions take place brings the only humor and fun to a rather bland presentation . 
maybe it would have been a better film if we saw the story unfold through their eyes . 
the talking tree , who seems to have a thing for john smith , is the only other character that can hold our interest and is perhaps the best developed of the bunch . 
the music , a welcome delight in the later disney films , is mostly a let down here , with the exception of the catchy and motivational , " colors of the wind . " 
mel gibson , as the voice of john smith , has a solid singing voice and should have been used more . 
the opposite holds true for the governor ratcliffe led songs ; the singing is even more grating than his simplistic character . 
i was rather bored through what turned out to be a shorter than expected running time . 
even the children in the audience seemed restless . 
while there's no stopping a kid from seeing something that they want--or disney wants them to--most i believe will be disappointed . 
perhaps the biggest problem is that disney has strayed from their familiar fable and fairy tale themes to history . 
it's all right to change or embellish fantasy to suit a movie's entertainment value , but doing so to historical facts doesn't work nearly as well as creating nagging questions in the viewer's minds and plot holes that are never filled . 
even the artwork , another disney strong point , varies greatly in quality , making any story problems even more obvious . 
as mentioned above , there were many questions that stayed with me while viewing the film . 
for instance , if john smith was truly such a world traveler and had so much experience with " savages , " why did he so quickly change his previous " kill as many indians as i can " attitude . 
if he was such a nice guy after all , he should have changed his ways long before this . 
or how about pocahontas' amazing english speaking ability when this had supposedly been the first time she had seen white men ? 
i can understand making the native americans speak english for the benefit of the audience , but simply saying that they had met a missionary years earlier would have cleared up a lot ; history was modified in the film anyway . 
as it is , i wonder if it doesn't give kids the wrong impression . 
in short , the film is too simplistic for adults and contains too much romance and not enough action or humor for the younger set . 
while disney tried valiantly in many ways to break with some of their firmest traditions , they end up failing on too many levels . 
plot : upon the realization that they are failing all of their classes , two roommates try to find a third roomie who will kill himself , since the school's charter automatically grants top grades to the roommates of any student who succeeds in suicide . 
critique : despite this film's interesting premise and dark subject matter , this movie sucks because it is unfunny , boring , and presents us with one of tom everett scott's worst acting performances . 
add that to a completely unsuccessful romance element , many lame and corny jokes , a long wait for the setup , and an ending that takes all the blackness out of this " black comedy " ( if you're gonna create a black comedy , don't chicken out in the end-see very bad things ( 8/10 ) for a perfect example ) , and you've got yourself a trite mtv creation worthy of its own subject matter . 
i barely laughed at any gags , found the bong element contrived and repetitive , and was horrified not to find any gratuitous nudity tossed anywhere in this movie ( if you're gonna make a bad college comedy , at least slap in some free t&a shots for the kids : ) . 
this one's not even worth the rental , fellas . 
skip it altogether ! 
little known facts about this film and its stars : during auditions for that thing you do ! , tom everett scott's first feature film role , director tom hanks was opposed to hiring tom because of the fact that scott could've passed for hanks 15 years ago . 
it wasn't until hanks' wife rita wilson saw the audition tape , and decided he was cute , that hanks decided to risk hiring scott . 
the actor who played scott cooper in this film , mark-paul gosselaar , is best known for having played the character of zack morris on tv's " saved by the bell " . 
his parents are dutch and named hans and paula . 
and who would've guessed that this is director alan cohn's first shot at directing a feature film ? 
when respecting a director , you must also respect the fact that they are not perfect . 
woody allen has made a couple less-than good films , and he's my favorite . 
even martin scorsese hasn't had a perfect track record . 
kevin smith , after a smashing debut with the classic " clerks " stooped as low to sell-out and make the dreadful " mallrats . " 
i mean , so far the only director who's made several films , none of which have been bad is richard linklater ( " slacker , " " dazed and confused , " " before sunrise , " and " suburbia " . . . all 
which were great ) . 
now , i adore quentin tarantino . 
his first two films were classic films , the second one being one of the greatest films of all time . 
but 1995 just wasn't that good of a year for him . 
he made way too many tv appearances . 
he mispronounced jackie chan's name on the mtv movie awards . 
and he made this film . 
 ( he was also awarded an oscar , so i guess that would be a grand exception ) . 
robert rodriguez is also a great director ; not a brilliant one , but a cool one . 
i've never seen an alexandre rockwell or allison anders film , so i can't comment on them . 
but in this crap ensemble director's film , all four give pitiful efforts . 
pitiful for any director , too . 
now in all fairness , ensemble director pieces never really work out . 
i've never seen all of " new york stories , " but have heard the first two films , by scorsese and francis ford coppola are crap ( i saw woody's one , which was hilarious but not totally up to par ) . but i will rate each film individually and then report back to you on the overal average score of the film . 
exposition : a simple one - a bellhop , ted ( the totally overdone tim roth , who's a god and all , but not in this one , though he has a couple good moments ) is working on new year's eve for his first shift ( ! ! ! ) in an old fancy hotel . 
he's the only one there ( again : ! ! ! ) and he only has a couple rooms ( yet again : ! ! ! ) . 
the old bellhop ( the seemingly immortal marc lawrence - who hated pulp fiction actually ) hands over his cap to ted and he goes to his job happily . 
as the night goes on , he becomes increasingly annoyed and hostile . 
yea . 
 ( the short films are presented in order , btw ) : 
the missing ingredient writer/director : allison anders starring : sammi davis , amanda decadenet , valeria golino , madonna , ione skye , lili taylor , alicia witt 
this one starts it off horribly with no plot , no intrigue , and crap dialogue . 
the situation is so terrible that it's physically painful to watch . 
the plot has something to do with a coven of witches needing sperm to bring back a godess who is ( gasp ! ) 
stuck inside some object in their hotel room . 
the witch that was supposed to bring it ( ione skye ) calls up ted and asks him if she can perform fellatio on him to get it . 
yeah , that's what i said . 
stupid plot , inane characters who aren't interesting at all , etc , etc , etc . the only good thing about this is it has a good cast which , in turn , it wastes pitifully . 
not even actually funny for a second . 
my rating ( out of 5 ) : no stars ! ! ! ! 
the wrong man writer/director : alexandre rockwell starring : david proval , jennifer beals and laurence bender 
another bad little film with another stupid sex thing going on . 
ted stumbles into the wrong room or something and gets in the middle of a couple ( david proval and jennifer beals in her attempt at " coming back " ) who are playing sex games . 
ted tries to escape and we cheer him on so it will end soon . 
but at least this has a bit of comedy in it , just not that much . 
and david proval has never overacted as much . 
and it's " pulp fiction " producer laurence bender who gets to puke from a window . 
a masterpiece compared to the first one , but still . . . 
the misbehavers writer/director : robert rodriguez starring : antonio banderes , tamlyn tomita , lana mckissack , danny verduzco , salma hayek 
would a robert rodriguez film be the same without salma hayek's navel ? 
nope . 
luckily she's on the tv dancing so we get to see her . 
surprisingly enough , when i read the screenplay ( about a year before actually seeing it ) , this one seemed to have the most potential . 
it was fast-paced , funny , and well , funny . 
but when i watched it , it seemed anti-climactic and only seemed to gain any momentum towards the end when everything happened at once . 
antonio overacts nicely and the two kids ( lana and danny ) are funny . 
but , as i said , it moves slowly and in that way , it's more painful than funny . 
but the ending was stupid and funny at the same time . 
oh ! 
the plot : antonio is a supposed gangster ( assumed , really ) who leaves his two troubling kids home while he and his wife ( tomita ) go out to get drunk at a new year's party . 
antonio hires ted for a couple bucks to watch his kids all night long , but things go wrong . . . it 
was okay . 
the man from hollywood writer/director : quentin tarantino starring : quentin tarantino , bruce willis , paul calderon and jennifer beals ( again ) 
ironically , this one could be considered the best for a bad reason : it best represents what quentin has done with this film . 
he plays chester , a spoiled brat actor or something who has just had a huge box-office hit on his hands and is living it up by playing an anti-climactic game from a hitchcock tv episode starring steve mcqueen and peter lorre where they gamble to see if one of them can get light from his lighter ten times in a row . 
they're drunk and need sober but nervous ted to hold the cleaver and bring it down if the lighter doesn't light . 
they also pay him a lot of cash . 
this is so much exactly what this little film is about that it's campy . 
tim roth was probably payed a lot of money to do this stupid part in this stupid film made by a bunch of people who are high on themselves 'cause they've had hits , major or minor . 
it took quentin to realize that . 
but the thing is , it doesn't seem like he realizes that . 
if he did , i'd give this a good 3 stars . 
but this sucked . 
it was anti-climactic and the dialogue wasn't very good . 
he starts off with a very long steadicam shot then goes to flashes . 
that makes no sense . 
it's cool for a while , then he makes it uneven . 
it's long and it's just not very good . 
hopefully quentin never repeats what he did with this one . 
conclusion : what's the moral here ? 
if you've made celebrated films , don't do an ensemble piece . 
they should have re-watched " new york stories " and then stopped in their tracks . 
none of these have any point to them and they're embarrassing to not only the writer/directors , but to the actors 'cause they're working with crap . 
but i will forgive everyone involved and i especially look forward to quentin's next directing job ( even though he and rodriguez jumped back to the top immeadiately with the cool " from dusk till dawn , " which i found exhilerating ) . 
i love quentin and i suppose it's good he made " the man from hollywood " because it makes him seem more realistic and not some " god of cinema . " 
i seem to respect directors if they aren't " gods " and are actually human beings who make mistakes . 
 " the man from hollywood " is his big mistake and let's hope he doesn't return her continuously . 
you don't need to have seen the original " species " to appreciate how utterly lousy " species ii " is . 
with few exceptions , sequels tend to be worse than the films that spawned them , but the fact that " species ii " is a follow-up isn't the only reason it's so miserable . 
it's the predictable storyline , the cardboard characters , the banal dialogue , the failed attempts at humor , the revolting special effects , the gratuitous nudity ( all female , of course ) , the bad acting , and the bland direction . 
the plot , simply geared at getting the alien species back on planet earth so that it can reak some more havoc , involves three astronauts landing on mars and inadvertently bringing some alien slime in a soil sample back aboard their shuttle . 
the slime , well , sort of jumps out at them and the screen turns black . 
that should have been the end of the movie right there . 
back on terra firma , at least one of the crew is now a carrier of alien dna and , as you'll remember if you saw the first movie , driven by a strong urge to procreate . 
on a parallel track , government scientists have cloned a version of sil from the first film ( now called eve , again " played " by natasha henstridge ) and are keeping her around for some testing . 
this , apparently , includes observing eve's reaction to " the dukes of hazzard " tv show , which she appears to enjoy . 
eve's bio-rhythms go off the scale each time one of her kinfolk " mates , " which we are forced to witness in gross-out detail , but otherwise there doesn't appear to be a whole lot of reason why henstridge is in this film , unless it was written into her contract ( let's hope it cited one sequel and one sequel only ) . 
eve finally breaks free of her confines--and her bra--for the finale , but the effects are so messy you can't really see what's going on . 
peter boyle is totally wasted as an institutionalized scientist who screams " i told 'em not to go ! " 
at the top of his lungs , referring to the mars mission but more likely aimed at the makers of this piffle . 
michael madsen reprises his role of press lennox ( so that he can enter high security areas , flash a badge and claim to be press , maybe ? ) , as does marg helgenberger as dr . laura baker , the one subjecting eve to the tv reruns . 
they're both unbelievably wooden . 
what's a talented filmmaker like peter medak ( " the ruling class , " " the krays , " " let him have it " ) doing directing this tripe , i wonder . 
it's an unfortunate trend , this : once-talented directors throwing in the towel and lending their names to unchallenging horror flicks like " species ii . " 
last year peter hyams gave us " the relic " ; no thanks necessary there . 
and the first " species " was helmed by roger donaldson who , although certainly no genius behind the camera , had demonstrated much better judgment with his previous choice of projects . 
is it just that there are no better offers out there ? 
 " species ii " is worthless . 
worse than that , it's also exploitative , offensive , and insulting to the intelligence at every turn . 
it's not that there isn't anything positive to say about the film . 
there is . 
after 92 minutes , it ends . 
 " something is fishy in the state of universal . " 
about ten years back , with the unexpected success of mad max and the road warrior , post-apocalypse nitty-gritty survival yarns became popular at the movies . 
we've always had movies of this nature ; on the beach , the end of the world , damnation alley , the ultimate warrior , and so on . 
to date , the most smoothly done were straightforward " haircuts " of the classic western plot , like the lone gunman who comes to town and protects the widow and the son against an evil organization , usually one in possession of some critical resource , like water , feed range , or a mining claim . 
most of these grew out of venerable , but solid hero yarns like the virginian and shane . 
 ( my personal favorite is a patrick swayze movie called steel dawn , which was fairly well made on a small budget . ) 
now we have waterworld , which again brings the traditional lone gunman to town to rescue the young widow and her daughter . 
 ( well , she's not a widow , and the kid isn't her daughter , but you get the idea . ) 
the lady is helen , played by the stunning jean tripplehorn , who isn't given a chance to be stunning , or even interesting , by the mediocre and unimaginative script . 
the child enola , played by tina majorino , is living proof that a child actor need not be a bad thing to have in a movie ; she outshines her material all the way through . 
in simple , the scene is earth , hundreds of years from now . 
the polar ice caps have melted , and somehow produced enough water to inundate the entire planet . 
the few remaining people live in boats and floating colonies , and survive by trade , theft , or piracy . 
somehow an oil tanker has survived the centuries , and its inhabitants , called " smokers , " are able to keep gasoline engines running despite the dearth of replacement parts and raw materials , so the bad guys have outboard engines , and fast-moving boats , airplanes , and jet skis . 
enola , found at sea as a young girl , has a mysterious map no one can read tattooed on her back . 
we suspect early on that it is the way to the mythical " dryland , " the place where trees , crops , and animals grow , and what plot there is hinges on who has enola . 
the psycho ruler of the smokers , the " deacon , " is trying to get her and find his way to dryland . 
played with typical self-lampooning , rug-chewing histrionics by dennis hopper , " deacon " is the only thing in the movie that's close to amusing . 
his performance is * almost * laughable , but there just isn't enough there to be funny . 
the star ( and a co-producer ) is kevin costner . 
he's playing an un-named lone denizen of the sea , a man called the " mariner , " who turns out to be a gilled , water-breathing mutant with webbed feet . 
very little is done with this . 
the script ignores the ineffectuality of gills in supplying enough oxygen to support a human metabolism ; it ignores the fact that even with both ice caps completely melted , much of the earth's surface would still be above water ; and it ignores the blatant impossibility of the cultures and technology shown . 
 ( canned meat does * not * last for centuries ; ammunition does * not * fire after it's more than a few decades old ; and so on , and so on . . . ) 
i'm quite fond of tina majorino's previous work , very impressed by jean tripplehorn's past accomplishments , and still speechless over costner's dances with wolves . 
but this movie could destroy the careers of anyone associated with it ! 
this movie cost one hundred and eighty-two million dollars , and there's * nothing * in it we haven't seen before , done better on only a few percent of the cost of this turkey . 
at 125 minutes of material , this movie cost over one point four million dollars per minute to make . 
the budget of this movie * could * have given us over thirty movies ; it could have paid for six years of a prime-time sf tv series with expensive fx work , or ten years of an sf tv series with good digital fx . 
in sum , this movie is beneath contempt . 
it has nothing new to offer , it has a script that could easily have been bettered by the people who write comic books for dc , and it spent more money than the national budget of a small nation . 
if you * have * to go see it , see it on a four-dollar matinee . 
otherwise you'll find yourself sneering at you every time you pass a reflective surface , for weeks . 
this season needs another serial killer movie like kathie lee gifford needs more public devastation . 
but lo and behold , here comes " switchback , " and fast on the heels of such stalker fare as " kiss the girls " and " i know what you did last summer . " 
but " switchback " is an undoubtedly weak genre entry , as the material it covers is old and tired , and the filmmakers rarely sustain enough energy to make any of the proceedings interesting . 
 " switchback " opens with the murder of a babysitter and the abduction of the young child she's watching . 
we learn late in the game that the kid belongs to fbi agent frank lacrosse ( dennis quaid ) , and that the kidnapper/killer is a nameless fiend that lacrosse has been tracking across the country for quite a while . 
he is promptly removed from the case , but this conflict of interest doesn't keep him from offering pursuit . 
lacrosse's most recent trek takes him to a blood-soaked hotel room in amarillo , texas , where the local sheriff ( r . lee ermey ) is torn between his re-election campaign and helping his new ally catch his man . 
in a related aside , former railway worker bob goodall ( danny glover ) is cruising through the snowbound west in his pinup-plastered ( even on the seatbelts ) el dorado . 
along the way , he picks up -- and subsequently saves the life of -- hitchhiking loner lane dixon ( jared leto ) . 
this tangent isn't a random one , as bob or lane will end up either holding a piece of the puzzle or turn out to be the killer himself . 
or is the villain in fact lacrosse , only pretending to be after the cold-hearted murderer he knows so much about . 
in a sense , that's half of the basic problem with " switchback . " 
for its first hour , the movie presents evidence that any of these three men could be the perpetrator , so we're given little insight into who they are , likely for fear that we'll learn too much too fast and therefore be able to make the proper deduction . 
but " switchback " then decides to explicitly reveal the killer's identity at its midpoint , and the following contradictory character motivations muddle both the pacing and the generation of suspense . 
some of the acting is a burdensome area as well , probably because the performers were instructed to build personas that are the exact opposite of their true selves . 
what is danny glover doing here , grinning and yeehawing his way through the messy plot ? 
and dennis quaid ? 
 ( that monotone -- stop it ! ) 
ermey is solid in a supporting role that's more interesting than the two leads thrown together , but the charismatic leto ( claire danes' object of affection in " my so-called life " ) is a scene-stealer tried and true . 
>from a material standpoint , " switchback " is pretty empty . 
but even when first-time director jeb stuart ( who wrote " the fugitive " and " die hard " ) doesn't know what to do , he knows what he wants it to look like -- the movie provides some great visuals . 
the set-on-a-train climax looks good ( even though the action is illogical ) , and the beautiful , crisp cinematography captures the rockies in all of their icy splendor . 
still , that's not enough to turn a lump of coal into a diamond , and more than the movie's look will end up leaving you cold . 
plot : a separated , glamorous , hollywood couple must pretend to reunite for a press junket of the last movie that they ever shot together . 
kewl . . . now 
i only wish that i could pretend never to have seen this movie . . . 
critique : trite , unfunny , boring and a waste of everyone's talent . 
how a premise with such zest and bite can turn into a movie that doesn't feature any chemistry , any real laughs , any surprises or any spice is beyond me . 
how julia roberts is used solely as a " puppy dog " character , puttering around in the background while we endure the complete bitchiness of zeta-jones' character , who is not one bit funny or romantic ( two ideal ingredients in a " romantic comedy " ) , is also beyond me . 
and why they chose john cusack , a great , quirky actor in his own right , to play the most bland , uninteresting and unfetching character ( with zero chemistry with either of his leads ) is further more , beyond me . 
and to anybody who decided that this project was " funny " enough to greenlight featuring the talents mentioned above , along with billy crystal , christopher walker , seth green and stanley tucci . . . well , 
what can i say . . . i 
just don't have the words . 
so is this the worst movie that i've seen all year ? 
no . but it definitely sucks and it's basically because . . . well , 
it's just not funny . 
and for the record , allow me to state a few more problems with it . 
it starts off slow , it's got no energy , it doesn't engage you with any of its characters ( julia barely gets somewhat interesting in the film , everyone else . . . lame ! ) , it utilizes way too many flashbacks to move the story forward , it's utterly predictable , standard , routine , see-through and uninteresting as a plot and it just sits there on the screen , big and ugly , waiting . . . waiting for you to laugh or find something in it that is amusing . 
and then hank azaria shows up . . . aaaaaah , the film's savior ( mind you , some might be offended by his exaggeration of a stereotype , but that's another story altogether ) . 
but when an experienced " voice " actor upstages all of the main stars in a summer " blockbuster " romantic comedy with an over-the-top antonio banderas accent , damn dude . . . your 
film's in trouble ! ! 
rent this movie on video just to see what went wrong yourself . 
the references to ricky ricardo and senor wences ( huh ! ? ) , the idio-plot points like when one of the characters goes on the roof to stretch his arms out and relax , but everyone believes that he's going to kill himself ( hardy-har-har ) and the cheap way of getting the audience to leave the theater laughing by bringing back a ball-sniffing dog that has no place being in the location at the end of the movie , well . . . i 
could go on . 
but i won't because i do still respect all of the actors in this film and actually did laugh at azaria , green and tucci's antics from time to time ( ironic , eh . . . what 
about the leads , dammit ! ) and liked the premise behind the film ( before i saw the finished product , of course ) . 
a dud all the way around . 
btw , all the talk about this film was that julia roberts was to be in a fat suit for one scene ( her character is supposed to have lost 60 pounds ) , so when the scene finally came , i did get a little excited about what it might look like and then . . . well , 
it basically just looked like julia roberts in a fat suit ! 
ugh . 
i think i'm gonna start drinking again after this lame-ass movie . 
c'mon hollywood , enough with the crud ! 
where's joblo coming from ? 
beautiful ( 1/10 ) - my best friend's wedding ( 7/10 ) - notting hill ( 5/10 ) - pretty woman ( 7/10 ) -runaway bride ( 5/10 ) - someone like you ( 4/10 ) - wedding planner ( 3/10 ) - when harry met sally ( 10/10 ) - you've got mail ( 4/10 ) 
some talented actresses are blessed with a demonstrated wide acting range while others , almost as gifted , have more limited types of parts for which they are suitable . 
as was amply evident after basic instinct , sharon stone can play sensual roles with great abandon . 
rejecting her natural abilities , she has spent the rest of her entire career trying with little success to play against type . 
gloria is her latest disaster . 
babe ruth didn't quit baseball after one season to play football in a quixotic quest to prove his athletic dexterity , and neither should stone reject what she does best . 
janeane garofalo , for example , is no less wonderful an actress because she could have never pulled off stone's part in basic instinct ; neither is stone any less talented because she couldn't do garofalo's comedic roles . 
gloria , directed by respected director sidney lumet and adapted by steve antin from the 1980 screenplay by john cassavetes , was not screened in advance for critics , almost always a sign that the studio isn't behind the picture . 
after seeing it in a nearly empty audience after it opened , it is clear why they held it from the press . 
it is a film more to be endured than enjoyed . 
as the story opens , an angry gloria ( stone ) is being released from prison after 3 years confinement . 
she's got a bad attitude and a big mouth . 
she also has a bad case of wavering and overblown new york accents , a disease suffered by much of the rest of the cast . 
an annoying child actor named jean-luke figueroa plays a soon-to-be orphan named nicky . 
just before his whole family is gunned down by hoods working for gloria's ex-boyfriend kevin ( jeremy northam ) , nicky's dad gives him a banana yellow floppy disk with secrets about kevin's operation and offers him a piece of fatherly advice . 
 " be a man , " his father lectures him sternly . 
 " don't trust nobody . 
not no broads . 
nobody . " 
most of the film's leaden dialog is delivered with the emotive power of the automated time and temperature announcements . 
add in the movie's almost non-existent background noise and the excruciatingly slow pacing , and you can hear the sounds of the lines falling to the ground like stones . 
lumet places his actors in the frames like fruit in a still life painting . 
they stand awkwardly mouthing the stiff sentences that pass for discourse . 
 ( " say you're my baby , " kevin coos demandingly . 
 " i'm not gonna , " gloria pouts back . ) 
the movie has a plethora of logical flaws and implausibilites . 
the kid rarely seems the least bit worried or scared , no matter how many people are after him with guns , trying to kill him . 
and in one key scene , the yellow floppy he holds is assumed to be the right disk without checking it and is further assumed never to have been copied . 
gloria , who keeps saying how she hates kids , takes nicky under her wing and protects him from kevin and the bad guys . 
think her maternal instincts will show up before the movie finally and predictably ends ? 
if you don't know the answer , you may be just the right viewer for this film . 
you have to say this for stone : she can keep a straight face . 
when explaining life to a 7-year-old kid , she says with utter seriousness , " you got a lot of love making to make ; you got a lot of boozing to do . " 
gloria runs 1 : 48 . 
it is rated r for profanity , violence and brief male nudity and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
susan granger's review of " ghosts of mars " ( sony pictures entertainment ) 
horror auteur john carpenter ( " halloween , " " vampires " ) strikes out with this sci-fi eco-fable that's so bad it boggles the mind to imagine how the project ever got green-lit . 
the script by carpenter and larry sulkis appears to have been lifted directly from last year's " pitch black , " involving a violent prisoner who must be released from bondage so that he can help a small band of humans protect themselves from blood-thirsty , marauding aliens . 
in the year 2176 , there are 640 , 000 earthlings on mars , living in a matriarchal society led by a commander , played by pam grier . 
grier , pill-poppin' natasha henstridge , and some rookie mars police officers ( clea duvall , jason statham ) travel to the remote mining town of shining canyon to fetch " desolation " williams - that's ice cube - to bring him back to chryse city to stand trial for murder . 
but when they're besieged by demented , zombie-like , body-snatching miners , they readily free the scowling ice cube since they need him for protection . 
it seems a red cloud was released from a shining canyon cave and , soon after , most of the miners went bonkers as long-dormant remnants of an ancient martian civilization took over their minds and bodies , lopping off heads as " vengeance for anything that tries to lay claim to their planet , " according to a scientist ( joanna cassidy ) . 
carpenter uses so many flashbacks to tell the " night of the living dead " -like story that the idiotic plot gets incomprehensibly confusing . 
but you can easily predict each of the supporting characters who will be killed , along with the order of their elimination . 
on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " ghosts of mars " thuds to a laborious , bottom-of-the-barrel 1 . 
perhaps , indeed , there is a curse on mars films , if you recall two other duds : " mission to mars " and " red planet . " 
plot : based on the wildly popular " jerry springer " tv show , this movie follows the lives of two groups of people before they make their bizarre appearances on the infamous program . 
one posse comes from the trailer parks and are to be featured in the " i slept with my stepfather " segment , and the other is based on some fly-girl whose girlfriends keep sleeping with her undevoted " dog " boyfriend . 
critique : the truth is that if i didn't have a day job , i would probably watch the real " jerry springer " show every day . 
i find it quite entertaining , despite its complete lack of redeeming value . 
having said that , the show itself is outrageous , funny , and always filled with goofy surprises , as opposed to this film which features no laughs ( is this a comedy or a drama ? ) , uninteresting and completely unbelievable one-dimensional stereotypes , and a contrived plot which bores us stupid all the way . 
i never thought i would utter the word boring in the same sentence as jerry springer , but this film is an absolute yawn-fest , despite offering various scenes featuring simulated blowjobs , lesbians , t&a and tv violence ( who would've guessed that ? ) . 
i wish they would have either a ) made this movie much , much funnier , or b ) turned it into a complete drama and given us a real perspective as to why people like this actually put themselves through these public forums of embarrassment . 
unfortunately , it doesn't seem as though screenwriter jon bernstein spent more than a drunken weekend watching real " jerry springer " reruns to complete his script , leaving us with a boring film , featuring no laughs , one-dimensional characters , and no fun whatsoever . 
little known facts about this film and its stars : jerry springer used to be the mayor of cincinnati , ohio . 
for this film , he won the 1999 razzie award for worst new star , tied with joe esterhas from an alan smithee film : burn hollywood burn . 
i never understood what the clich ? " hell on earth " truly meant until very recently . 
i've just never experienced anything in my life which was so terrifying , so horrible , so monstrously deplorable that it justified being termed as " hell on earth " . 
after all , i've never been to war , i've never been the victim of any violent crime , i've never really been broken hearted , and i've never been audited ; so i really had no frame of reference as to people meant when they said that something was " hell on earth " 
then i saw cruel intentions . 
in a perfect world , i would be in charge of all the movie studios . 
the very first thing i'd do in this perfect world , would be to take every hollywood producer who thinks that setting any story in contemporary america with a 20-something cast playing teenagers and featuring a soundtrack ripped directly from mtv , and throw them in jail . 
but it wouldn't just be your average jail , not even a maximum security installation . 
i'd have these producers ( and everyone else involved in the production of these films ) put in front of a war crimes tribunal and forced to beg for mercy for their crimes against humanity . 
now you're probably thinking to yourself : " is this really how bad cruel intentions is ? " 
the answer is no . 
it's actually much worse . 
watching the cast of this motion picture atrocity try to act their way through roger kumble's awfully written script is probably a lot like stabbing yourself in the arm with a chainsaw and then pouring salt on the open wound . 
and then pouring acid on the salt . 
i don't know if kumble was trying to evoke comedy or tragedy out of his opening scene where marci greenbaum ( tara reid ) whines about having nude photos of her posted on the internet , but the only emotion i felt was sheer boredom . 
from that opening scene , where boring actor ryan phillippe tries to seduce tv actress swoosie kurtz , to the conclusion which i don't remember because i had practically fallen asleep ; cruel intentions is truly " hell on earth , " right up there with war and tax audits . 
about an hour or so into " the jackal , " a character wandered around as people were being shot at in a big suspense sequence , and one of the audience members in the theatre i saw it in shouted out " i hope she gets killed now ! " 
at that point it hit me : i didn't care for any of the characters being played by actors i didn't really like . 
when the sole reason you care about a character being played by sidney poitier in a suspense film is because he's being played by sidney poitier , you know something's rotten in the state of denmark . 
every year , a couple films like this are released . 
you know : the cheap , action packed international espionnage film , featuring a semi-promising premise , some big-name actors ( usually bruce willis ) , and the hopes that some audience members will forget the cold war ended several years ago . 
this was the third one of '97 , following the very lackluster " the saint , " which featured an amoral costume changing bond wannabe ; and the surprisingly fun " the peacemaker , " featuring clooney and kidman trying to stop an almost untraceable villain . 
 " the jackal " tries to mix both elements . 
and you thought " the saint " was bad . 
 " the jackal " is loosely ( very loosely , i hope ) based on the 1973 fred zimmerman classic that i've yet to see , " the day of the jackal , " which featured ( apparently ) a suave hitman called the jackal , played by edward fox , trying to assasinate charles degaule . 
well , welcome to the 90s , where a sorta suave hitman , also called the jackal ( bruce willis ) , trying to kill the head of the fbi . . . or 
is he ? 
after being hired by a russian mob lord as a bit of vengeance for the murder of his brother ( killed in the opening scenes ) , the jackal romps all over the northen hemisphere , from helsinki to virginia , setting up an elaborate scheme wherein he'll be able to assasinate this person and still get away to live in seclusion . 
and like the saint , the jackal changes his look over and over and over again to elude people . 
the agent working on the case , cater preston ( sidney poitier - yes , that sidney poitier ) , working with a russian agent , valentina koslova ( diane venora - lady capulet from " romeo + juliet " ) , gives up early on and meets with an ex-ira man , declan mulqueen ( richard gere , putting up some tight competition between himself and brad pitt for worst fake irish accent of '97 ) who's in a massachusetts jail , but who has apparently seen the jackal , who has been eluding the law forever . 
soon , he's out working with the two untrusting agents , and trying to help them catch him . 
there are numerous problems with the film , and which one is the biggest one is pretty impossible to put a finger on . 
the film is supposed to be a big suspense thriller , but save a couple moments , the film never achieves suspense , or even a sense of intrigue . 
sure , the big assasination attempt is a bit cool looking and even slightly tense , but every other scene in the film is too short and too dull to register . 
the film never picks up enough to become a thrilling experience , or even an entertaining one . 
it doesn't help that the plot is designed to be complex , but falls into so many problems , like plot holes and unbelievable circumstances . 
the script of " the jackal " is a complete mess , mostly because it can't decide what it wants to focus on . 
is this a film about a man trying to find redemption by catching a nasty killer ? 
is it a film about a nasty , amoral hitman who's in everything for the money ? 
or is it a combination of both ? 
 " the jackal " aims for the latter , but never focuses in on either character . 
the connection between the two feels completely edited , so much that in a scene when the jackal turns around and notices declan , you wonder how he recognized him so fast . 
the worst part is the little past they try to give declan , most notably his relationship with an old girlfriend , isabella ( mathilda may ) , given so little screen time that you almost forget her character exists until she pops up every now and then . 
the supporting characters are worse . 
sidney poitier is given a completely unplayable role , that of a man who is just stern sometimes , and other times more giving and likable . 
what is poitier doing here ? 
he's one of the best living actors ! 
does he really need to waste his time doing drivel like this ? 
diane venora's russian character is almost as bad , with a cigarette perpetually in her mouth , and a plastered on expressionless facade . 
it's not that anyone's bad here ; it's that they have nothing to do . 
the plot is a joke , feeling like it was pasted together by someone in post-production who dropped each scene on the floor and pasted them together quickly so it could be released on time . 
the jackal himself is not even much of an international villain . 
there are several times where he's in a tight situation and makes things worse for himself , the only explanation being that the filmmakers wanted to toss in a cheap thrill . 
take a scene where he's being followed by some agents into a parking garage : he quickly sprays his car another color , and adds a solvent that if touched kills the person who touched it . 
doesn't killing someone attract more attention than it does distract ? 
and does he think dying his hair bottle blond makes him fit in in a public place ? 
geez ! 
is there anything good here ? 
well . . . a 
couple things . 
i did like willis's icy expressions ; he may not have been real suave or anything , but some of his looks are worth a chuckle . 
richard gere has a couple of good moments , making his character as likable as he possibly could have . 
and a couple sequences are kicky in that kind of proposterous , completely inane but fun kinda way , most notably : a sequence where he tests out a new gun on an annoying gun builder ( jack black ) ; and a bit where he seduces a gay washington man , which has its share of a couple good jokes , most particular a kiss by willis . 
but none of these elevate the film any higher than it could go ; they're just little distractions along the way to amuse us mildly then toss us back into the world of dullness and stupidity that is " the jackal . " 
director michael caton-jones ( who directed the far superior " rob roy " ) has made a film that is made very couple months , one that is unentertaining , unintriguing , and pretty much cold , but will nevertheless make money because , hey , the trailers do make it look like it may be fun in that kind of retro-clancy kinda way . 
every now and then , the filmmakers get it right ( " clear and present danger , " which was enormous fun in that smart kinda way ) , but " the jackal " is an example of when they go completely wrong . 
 " showgirls " is the first big-budget , big-studio film to receive an nc-17 rating . 
and its release last year came at a time when senator bob dole and other politicans chastised the entertainment industry for promoting sex and violence . 
but if " showgirls " is any indication of hollywood's future , the folks in washington should focus their attack on a more dangerous threat to american values--bad moviemaking . 
 " showgirls " is a relentlessly exploitive look at the las vegas strip scene , and the film turns out to be just as trashy as its subject matter . 
director paul verhoeven and writer joe eszterhas , who collaborated on another shock-value project , 1992's " basic instinct , " follow the plight of a young woman ( teen tv star elizabeth berkley ) determined to make a name for herself as a topless dancer . 
it's a hackneyed premise to begin with , so not surprisingly , all of the stock characters are trucked out . 
there's the demanding producer . 
the loyal friend . 
the bitchy competitor . 
lest i forget the scummy club owner . 
of course , any attempt at character development or a coherent storyline is just window dressing for the film's main attraction--an endless parade of full-frontal nudity . 
unfortunately , " showgirls " doesn't satisfy in this department . 
verhoeven's slam-bang , in-your-face style of direction proves neither arousing nor erotic . 
to make matters worse , you'll be forced to sit through the movie's clothed scenes , which don't cover up for laughable acting and some of the most absurd dialogue ever spoken in film history . 
verhoeven and ezsterhas deserve credit for trying to break ground , but if it's adult entertainment you want , stay home and watch the playboy channel . 
you'll be the wiser for it . 
here's a concept -- jean-claude van damme gets killed within the first ten minutes of the movie . 
now if that isn't enough to get you to finally see a van damme movie , i don't know what is . 
all sarcasm aside , it is certainly a different way to start a movie , of course a few minutes later we find out that the newly deceased had a twin brother -- so lucky us , we get to see more of jean-claude . 
van damme #1 works for the russian mafia in the united states and is killed by some of their operatives . 
van damme #2 is a police officer in france who finds out that he had a twin brother he never knew about after #1 gets killed in france . 
the remaining twin ( the french cop ) goes to the united states to find out who killed his brother and avenge his death . 
once there , he hooks up with his deceased brother's girlfriend , played by natasha henstridge , and the two of them set out to discover who the murderers are . 
jean-claude's acting abilities don't seem to be up to the usual lackluster standards in this movie . 
in other words , just in case you missed the sarcasm , his acting is worse than normal . 
on the upside , natasha henstridge is in this film , and she does what she did best in species -- she gets naked . 
sadly , this is probably the high point in the movie . 
she is actually a decent actress , but didn't improve as much as i thought she would after species . 
this is the typical van damme movie , with jean-claude doing a variety of high end martial arts moves on his opponents . 
nothing new here , and certainly nothing we haven't seen in every other van damme movie . 
simply put , there is absolutely nothing new about this movie . 
it has a retread plot -- this isn't the first time jean-claude has played twins . 
he still can't act . 
we all saw natasha's breasts in species ( although this is one repeat performance i'm not complaining about ) . 
this is pretty much like every movie that van damme has ever been involved in -- sub par . 
what makes reindeer games even more disappointing than just a predictable , lifeless action flick is the cast and crew who signed onto the project . 
most of the people involved in reindeer games just came off terrible slumps with excellent comeback performances in their most recent films . 
john frankenheimer , who made the unforgettable cold war drama the manchurian candidate way back in the early 60's , recently showed critics and fans alike that he still had some magic left in his directorial skills when he created the brilliant car chase scenes in ronin . 
screenwriter ehren kruger gave a remarkable first impression when he wrote the script for the underrated arlington rd . 
ben affleck displayed his comedic talents in dogma and boiler room , and even on saturday night live directly after the horrible forces of nature and 200 cigarettes . 
even charlize theron , who i was convinced couldn't act , did a decent job in cider house rules . 
when all of these bright stars come together , one would assume that the movie will have great potential to be entertaining . 
after coming out of the theater showing reindeer games , disbelief was my first reaction ? then frustration . 
the movie could have premiered on cinemax at two in the morning starring an all-rookie cast and still would have been equally lacking in entertaining . 
the acting is so pitiful and the script so dull , i may have to rethink some of my opinions on how talented these actors actually are . 
it seemed like everyone was restricted to just the script and not given a fair amount of improvisational rights . 
we have all seen ben affleck have some fun on the set , it is so apparent in a number of scenes in good will hunting when he exchanges jokes with his friends at a bar . 
the actors in that movie were having fun and , from that , the audience had fun . 
reindeer games is the complete opposite ; the actors don't seem to want to be their characters ( even danny trejo , who will do practically anything , doesn't look like he is enjoying himself ) , causing the audience to quickly lose interest . 
evidence of public disapproval was noted when a woman behind me yelled " boy this movie is horrible ! " 
and when there were scattered giggles during the most dramatic moments . 
the story follows a man , rudy ( ben affleck ) , who is leaving prison in a few days along with his best friend and cellmate nick ( james frain ) . 
nick has been exchanging love letters with a beautiful woman , ashley ( charlize theron ) , and cannot wait to leave prison and meet her in person . 
when nick is killed in a prison riot , rudy decides to pretend to be nick and take ashley out on a date for the christmas holidays . 
unfortunately ashley's brother , gabriel ( gary sinise ) interferes with their relationship . 
thinking rudy is nick , he kidnaps rudy and threatens to kill him unless he helps rob a casino , which nick use to work at as a security guard . 
now rudy must pretend to be nick so he can protect ashley from her brother gabriel . 
confused ? 
the movie only gets more complex as it goes on , until it gets way , way too complex at its climax . 
but reindeer games makes its first serious mistake during the first half an hour . 
the hero commits a greedy , selfish act when he decides to pretend he is his dead cellmate in order to date ashley . 
some hero . 
the point of a hero is to do the morally correct thing , a person for the audience to relate to or admire . 
when rudy lies and cheats his way into trouble , instead of gathering support from me for him to ultimately succeed in getting the bad guys , i felt more like he was getting what he deserved and even wanted to see him fail at times . 
the most irritating part of the film ( besides the fact that this is a christmas movie released in february ) is the number of chances the bad guys get to kill rudy but fail or delay for some idiotic reason . 
the routine in which the bad guy must explain his genius plan to the hero before attempting to kill him with some elaborate machine is getting so tired nowadays , especially when i eagerly want to see the hero dead . 
the only saving grace keeping this movie from receiving zero stars is an amusing but pointless cameo from isaac hayes as a prisoner upset with his food . 
why he was in this movie for such a pointless role beats me . 
why any of these people had anything at all to do with this movie beats me . 
 ( dreamworks skg ) running time : 2 hours starring robert duvall , tea leoni and elijah wood directed by mimi leder the first of the two asteroid movies coming out this year ( the second is the macho armageddon ) is actually a dull affair . 
elijah wood plays leo biederman , who during astronomy class discovers that a large asteroid is heading for earth . 
tea leoni plays a ( rather crap ) news reporter , jenny lerner , who soon discovers about this asteroid through a very long winded and boring way , and robert duvall plays the leader of a space crew , spurgeon tanner , who are planning to blow the asteroid out of the path of earth . 
also featuring is morgan freeman as the president , and maximilian schell and vanessa redgrave as jenny's father and mother . 
while many people will walk into the film expecting a big special effects fest with the asteroid blowing everything up ( as the trailers seem to promise ) , the film is actually more of a character study , if a very poor one . 
the main problem is that there are too many characters in the film , and not enough time to explore them all . 
only the space crew are given any depth , jenny lerner , leo and the president are surprisingly 2d , and we never get to know these characters . 
and because i couldn't care for them , i didn't really give a crap if the asteroid killed them or not . 
the script by bruce joel rubin and michael tolkin is horribly simple , and never really makes any interesting statements . 
mimi leder , the former er director and director of the average the peacemaker ( 1996 ) , again directs in a ho-hum style , and never really gets any emotion out of a scene , which is a shame . 
the cast are seemingly on autopilot , although tea leoni does gives a rather good performance , even if she acts a bit too dorky for her own good . 
she seems uncommonly stupid for a journalist . 
robert duvall is on autopilot with a underwritten role , he just seems to be in this film for the money . 
elijah wood , one of the best child actors working today , is surprisingly average , although his choice of roles lately haven't exactly been brilliant ( i . e . 
flipper , 1996 ) . 
his role is also vastly underwritten . 
morgan freeman , again , is utterly wasted with a ridiculously underwritten role . 
like duvall , he just seems to be in the film for the money . 
the supporting cast are all o . k , none making much of an impression . 
ok , so deep impact may have messed up character wise , but surely the special effects are good ? 
well , yes and no . 
although the special effects should be impressive , with a massive tidal wave destroying new york , the special effects look like , well , special effects . 
sadly , the waves looks like it's been drawn on computer , and doesn't look too good at all . 
surprising really , when the effects are done by industrial light & magic , who did the effects for the lost world and twister . 
in the end , deep impact is a wasted opportunity . 
what could of been a moving movie with good effects turns out to be a dud in both characters and effects . 
the 2 hours the film had could have been used to much greater effect . 
once again , dreamworks has churned out another average movie . 
let's hope armageddon is a bit better . 
overall rating= review by david wilcock web space provided by geocities 
seen may 2 , 1998 at 3 : 40 p . m . at the crossgates cinema 18 , theater #13 , with chris wessell and sean o'shea for $5 . 
[theater rating : * * * 1/2 : very good sound , picture , and seats] 
the big-budget , mega-hype " event " movie is becoming so trendy now it is becoming a weekly routine instead of a seasonal one . 
gluttony is hollywood's favorite sin , but it is the movie-goers who pay the price by being dealt the same things over and over on an ever-worsening basis . 
 " lost in space " is the latest such offering - a film so poor it would be twice as good if it were mediocre . 
it's made up of every element of science fiction , but at no time does it evoke the slightest amount of wonderment the genre was meant for . 
audiences' attention spans are rapidly decreasing and as is the trend with such films , this one opens with a fast-paced space battle which serves not only as the most interesting scene in the film ( probably because it has " star wars " written all over it ) , but as the producers' way of showing off their budget through the special effects . 
battle scenes are worthless without tension , and since we have no idea what the setting is it's impossible to care about anything that happens . 
in essence , the entire segment works like a teaser for an arcade game , not a piece of filmmaking . 
we meet the robinson family - a family of five that does not get along but has been chosen to act on earth's behalf in effort to find another planet worthy of colonization due to the exhausting of our natural resources . 
each member of the family has a special trait and personality , and yet none of them seem like actual people . 
professor john robinson ( hurt ) is the intelligent , quiet leader who has devoted so much time to his work his family and marriage are suffering without his realizing it ( it's obvious what role this aspect will play ) . 
of course this is all established through extremely melodramatic scenes such as the children and parents arguing and bickering among themselves and with each other , while the necessary problems are " resolved " at the right moments . 
the only thing worse than the screenplay is the fact it's presented in a completely serious manner without a trace of satire , and is so pathetic it's laughable . 
the first act is not a building of a story , but a juxtaposition of scenes that serve no purpose other than to plug in all the required elements ( such as plot , conflict , and characterization - god forbid ! ) . 
we're provided with the minimum amount possible of these elements to keep the film from being completely silent . 
in fact , it might as well be since the dialogue is virtually non-existent . 
yes , the characters do speak , but they do not talk . 
they say things that only relate to the conflict , but they never really interact ( unless it's the cartoony flirting scenes between arrogant major don west ( leblanc ) and uptight , unemotional judy robinson ( graham ) ) . 
it's amazing that after an hour of trite dialogue and generic plot devices that so little happens . 
eventually the pacing rapidly increases , but the amount of genuine interest does not . 
the story finally gains some prospective by living up to its title as the robinsons find themselves lost in space after narrowly managing to defeat dr . smith ( oldman ) , the cartoony villain , and his plans for sabotage . 
what ensues is a series upon series of completely unrelated conflicts . 
the first such scene takes place on an abandoned spaceship and what ensues could best be described as " alien " -lite . 
the story changes again when the robinsons crash land on an alien planet and must act quickly to escape it and survive . 
but there's never any real notion of suspense here because the script constantly wanders aimlessly . 
plotlines are developed , but each becomes totally irrelevant as the story changes from scenario to scenario . 
the atmosphere attempts to be surreal by incorporating time travel and various time paradoxes , but it's presented in such a ridiculous way it's utterly boring . 
by the time the last act rolls around , there is no sense of a payoff building . 
the ending does not go out on a high note with any kind of climax , instead , it seems to come to a sudden halt ( but at least it ends at all ) . 
 " lost in space " is major film production at its worst . 
it's frightening that a film so poorly written , directed , and acted might be considered mainstream entertainment . 
the only thing worse than watching a bad movie is realizing that the film had a lot of potential and could've been effective . 
such is the case with _urban legend_ , the new horror film from first time director jamie blanks . 
the idea behind the movie is that the mad slasher of the film muders people according to various urban legends . 
examples include the killer in the backseat of the car and person getting calls from inside her house . 
the killer wears one of those l . l . bean parkas with the hood drawn completely up , so you can't see the face . 
i guess halloween masks are out of style for psychos these days . 
anyhow , the premise is certainly a nifty one and the opening scene is spooky and atmospheric . 
it's a very good setup that promises more chills to come . 
unfortunately , the film never takes off from there . 
the movie takes place on a peaceful new england college campus . 
like most slasher flicks , this one also centers around a young female main character whose friends are slowly killed off by a knife wielding maniac ( or in this case an axe wielding maniac ) . 
i've always wondered why these killers don't save themselves a lot of time and trouble and just go after the person they ultimately aim to kill . 
after the fine first scene , the movie degenerates into a monotonous series of those annoying you-thought-it-was-the-killer-but-was-just- someone-else scares . 
these are always accompanied by loud bursts of music . 
i guess sudden , sharp music chords are what passes for terror these days . 
the actual killer will attack at about every third music blast . 
the slasher appears , attacks , the victim is eviscerated , and the tedious cycle appears anew . 
false scares should always be used in moderation . 
someone needs to tell director blanks that things like this just aren't as scary as they used to be . 
this movie commits the biggest sin a horror film can commit--it's not frightening . 
remember the horror movie cliches that were so mercilessly mocked in _scream_ and _scream 2_ ? 
this movie still adheres to them . 
tons of illogical moments about ; more than i really have the inclination to list . 
and i don't mean illogical in the summer popcorn movie sense . 
that type of illogical can be fun . 
this film insults your intelligence more times than i care to remember . 
the last 20 minutes especially degenerates into such lunacy that you'll be laughing more than you'll be screaming . 
actually , you won't be screaming at all . 
at its best , the acting can barely be called " adequate " and the script could've definitely used a rewrite or two . 
the film still manages to have some strong points . 
the killings are certainly inventive and plentiful enough to satistfy most gore fans . 
there are some intentionally funny moments . 
 ( these were exceeded by the unintentional ones . ) 
the film is well made from a technical standpoint . 
besides the first part , there is also another good scene , a prolonged cat and mouse chase inside a radio station . 
if there had only been more sequences like this , that relied on tautness and suspense rather than loud bursts of music , _urban legend_ might've been worth your money . 
my opinion on a film can be easily swayed by the presence of actors i love . 
i love ralph fiennes . 
i love uma thurman . 
i love sean connery . 
hell , i'm even a big fan of jim broadbent and fiona shaw . 
i saw the fantastic preview for the avengers nearly eight months ago , and i've been eagerly awaiting the film ever since . 
a few months into the summer , however , i noticed that its release date had been changed a few times , and that it had ended up in the mid-august dumping ground . 
then , in this final week before its official release , i learned that it was not to be screened for critics . 
and that the actors had not been plugging the film on late night programs . 
and that it was directed by the same man who brought us the remake of diabolique . 
my expectations fell to pieces when i learned all of these things . 
the film i saw today didn't even meet those expectations . 
this is a lousy , incoherent mess . 
i would slam it harder , if it weren't for the nifty sets and the mere presence of all these fine , lovable actors . 
but sets are ultimately empty , and the performances are completely uninspired . 
that's the main problem with the avengers : for all it's hip-hop flash and tidal waves , none of it feels the least bit energetic or inspired . 
it's like a chore , a bland exercise in superhero film making . 
it also feels like its been cut to pieces , clocking in at 90 minutes and forgetting to close some of its own subplots . 
this is just plain depressing . 
the avengers is a film version of the popular 60s television show . 
frequent readers of mine will not be surprised to learn that i've never watched an episode . 
i wasn't alive then . 
i don't even watch television now . 
i'm very sorry that i don't have this perspective , but , judging from the reviews i've already read , knowing the tv show just makes matters worse . 
i didn't know and love john steed and emma peel , and therefore i was not as upset to see how these actors i love have managed to thrash their roles . 
i also doubt that familiarity with the series would allow me to understand more clearly the chain of events that do take place in this film . 
based on what the film told me , i gather that steed ( fiennes ) is some kind of british super guy ( somewhat like james bond ) , and that dr . peel ( thurman ) is just a really smart doctor , who also happens to know a lot about weather and about beating people up while limited by tight leather suits . 
they are to work together , under mother's orders ( mother is played by jolly jim broadbent , while his co-conspirator , father , is played by the equally-talented fiona shaw ) . 
it seems that there is a man out there controlling the weather . 
his name is de wynter ( connery ) . 
he is a crazy scottish guy . 
our heroes had better stop him , or else . 
 . 
 . 
the weather will keep getting colder until they " have to go to hell to warm up " ( one of the film's few funny lines ) . 
along the way there is subplot after subplot , hinged sloppily together by scenes that go nowhere , feel perfunctory , and ultimately make no sense . 
for example , our heroes are eventually attacked by a swarm of giant mechanical insects with machineguns attached to their torsos . 
now , killer bugs don't really go with the weather-controlling theme of the film . 
the purpose of the bugs , other than to annihilate our heroes , is never established . 
they're never even directly connected to de wynter ( they're controlled by his crazy henchman , played by eddie izzard ) . 
the special effects aren't bad , but they're loud , obnoxious , and intrusive . 
like so many scenes in the film , it seems present only to keep your attention from waning . 
and i guarantee you , it will wane . 
i stopped thinking about the story when i realized it didn't do any good to think . 
the avengers has clearly been chopped up and re-assembled so many times that even the people involved couldn't tell us what happens . 
there are several scenes in the preview that didn't make the final cut . 
in addition , many of the sequences have irritating , grainy film quality , which makes it feel low-budget ( the last scene is particularly bad ) . 
the scenes that don't feature action should be electric , thanks to our wonderful cast . 
they aren't . 
the action scenes should be electric , because this is an action film . 
they aren't , either . 
and what about this wasted cast ? 
oh , it makes me weep with disappointment . 
we're talking ralph fiennes here , one of the best actors working today , one of the best actors * ever * . 
i love the guy . 
i've loved all his films , until this one . 
he seems like he wants to understand the film , but he's as lost as we are . 
and thurman , in all of her spectacular beauty and talent , can't manage to look at home here . 
 ( i don't blame her completely , for there is a strange subplot involving her evil twin that is never explained in any way , and it can't be easy to deal with such terrible screenwriting . ) 
connery , however , seems the most out of it , totally lacking any kind of focus , or interest , for that matter . 
who is to blame ? 
is it the screenwriter , don macpherson ? 
perhaps , although i can see a shell of a story here that could have been a good superhero movie had it been handled right . 
is it the actors ? 
for god's sake , no -- these people clearly lost interest when they saw the inevitable path of destruction on which this film was travelling . 
i blame director jeremiah chechik , who shouldn't have been given the task to begin with . 
his best film , benny & joon , is quirky in the same way that this one was supposed to be , but here it mostly seems like a lot of failed attempts at wit and humor . 
add to that a lack of experience in big-budget action , and you have the worst choice for director this side of james ivory . 
if the avengers has a saving grace , it's the set design . 
the sets ( by stuart craig ) are big , colorful , and often pleasing to look at . 
i like the final set-piece , on de wynter's island , even if none of it makes a bit of sense . 
i admired the overhead view of the stairs , showing dr . peel running around in circles and never getting anywhere . 
i also enjoyed michael kamen's music score , particularly in the opening credits . 
but this stuff is routine -- good sets and music are nice , but there's a lot more that needs to be here . 
inspiration , for instance , would have been really nice . 
maybe a little bit of cohesion in the story . 
or a sense of purpose . 
most of all , though , i would have liked to see these actors relish in their roles . 
damn this movie for not giving them the chance . 
if snake eyes were a dog , you'd put it to sleep . 
if it was a couch , you'd put it out on the sidewalk , where it would sit for a week . 
if it were your child , you'd be reading military school catalogs . 
if it were a ship -- no , it wouldn't be the titanic , that would imply glamor and tragedy -- it would be the exxon valdez . 
 ( personal side note : i saw this movie on the road during a houston business trip . 
for whatever reason , my hotel's cable system wasn't showing the astros-braves game , which featured a randy johnson-greg maddux matchup . 
this forced me to pay full price for snake eyes instead of watching a perfectly good baseball game for free -- so the invective , deserved as it is , should be seen in that perspective . ) 
snake eyes is supposed to be a mystery movie , and good mystery movies are supposed to leave you asking yourself questions on the way out of theater . 
snake eyes is not a good mystery movie , but i had some questions : where's the manager , and how do i get a re-admit pass ? 
if i fall asleep on the drive home and wreck my rent-a-car , can i sue brian de palma ? 
is it too late for the academy to revoke nicolas cage's oscar ? 
will someone please ( i'm begging you ) give gary sinise a role worthy of his talents ? 
and how , exactly does cage end up wearing the exact same shirt and tie as sinise does ? 
the first and most glaringly wrong thing with snake eyes is the trailer . 
if you've seen the trailer without seeing the movie , consider yourself fortunate . 
the trailer is a work of sheer genius . 
it manages to convey everything worthy of the movie -- the noteworthy steadicam work , the exuberance of cage's performance as a thoroughly corrupt atlantic city policeman , the essential elements of the marginal plot . 
the expert craftsman who pieced together a fairly good trailer out of snippets of a wretched movie deserves praise and a percentage of the gross . 
 ( is a best trailer category at the oscars that far-fetched , after all ? ) 
but all it does is set us up for an overwhelmingly disappointing movie . 
the trailer sets up what should have been a promising plot : detective ricky santoro ( cage ) must solve the mystery of who shot the secretary of defense at an atlantic city pay-per-view boxing match . 
unfortunately , there are multiple problems afoot . 
the trailer gives away much , too much of the story . 
the shooter is killed instantly , so the story revolves around why the secretary was killed and who is involved in the conspiracy . 
the film's secret is ho-hum at best , and anyone who has watched the trailer and is aware of the law of economy of characters can figure out who the top conspirator is . 
without an interesting plot , without interesting dialogue , and without much of a reason to care about the characters or the story , snake eyes is a failure on almost every possible level . 
as much as i hated this movie , i must give brian de palma one tiny bit of credit . 
de palma is maddeningly inconsistent . 
he can , on his day , create amazingly well-done movies ( the untouchables , carlito's way ) . 
on off-days , he can be , well , just horrid ( the bonfire of the vanities , raising cain ) . 
snake eyes falls into the horrid category , but there are a couple of moments that are worth seeing strictly for their film-school degree-of-difficulty value . 
the steadicam opening scene does a good job of introducing the cage character and is a virtuoso technical job by both the director and the actor . 
there is a split-screen chase scene that looks pretty good , and it's followed by a god's eye view of a bank of hotel rooms that's imaginitively done . 
this is what's called giving the devil his due . 
but the technical skill doesn't even come close to making up for the sheer evil of this movie . 
placing plot holes to one side for a moment , snake eyes features easily the worst boxing match in cinema history ( george foreman is in better shape than the movie boxers ) , a hurricane that exists for no other reason than to punctuate significant plotlines with portentuous thunderclaps , and perhaps the worst , most overly drawn out ending in years . 
snake eyes is a criminal act , an evil waste of time and talent . 
cage , sinise , and yes , even de palma deserve better . 
the audience deserves better -- but no refund , no re-admit pass , no free popcorn coupon , can ever restore to us the time we've spent or wash the awful images from our mind . 
however , we are left with one consolation , that we were warned by the movie's title -- because snake eyes is nothing more than a roll of craps . 
the last line ( or near to that honor ) is the great butler , alfred ( the ubergod , michael gough ) saying , " i think we need a bigger bat cave , " or something to that note . 
that's exactly what this film is - too big for its own good because it has too damn much . 
cut batgirl out . 
cut one of the villains . 
it's too much to handle in one dosage . 
it's so much that characters get left behind . 
poor elle gets a mere 3 scenes and a subplot which is introduced but never finished in any way , shape or form . 
and elle deserves better . 
this is the fourth in the gigantic film series and the second from director joel schumacher . 
it's also the fourth worst in the series ( and second worst from joel ) . 
the series has been declining since its stunning debut , followed by the almost-as-stunning sequel and then the anti-climactic third one ( first by joel ) . 
this one's not anti-climactic - i knew it was gonna suck . 
it's up to joel to make it fun though . 
 " batman forever " was fun . 
this is a big bore of over-produced action sequences and shallow characters . 
i mean , this one bit . 
i'm gonna put all the plot in one paragraph : mr . freeze ( ah-nold ) , who's wife was dying of some disease , has become the new big villain these days . 
he's a huge ex-scientist who fell into some weird liquid ( hello ? 
joker ? ) and now has a body temperature of a big fat zero and has a blue body . 
batman ( george ) and robin ( chris ) fight him a bit but find they're growing apart . 
meanwhile , another villain shows up , poison ivy ( uma ! ) , who was a dorky scientist chick working on flowers in south america with a twistet scientist ( john glover ) who kills her when she finds out he's used her research to develop an uberman , bane , who is basically a man pumped with chemicals which probably killed any personality he ever had . 
she emerges from her chemicals ( don't ask 'cause i can't tell ya ) as a sexy woman ( the real uma ) who's poison when or if you kiss her and has some aphrodiasiatic scent she blows at people . 
she starts to tear away at the dynamic duo . 
meanwhile , alfred's dying of the same disease mr . freeze's wife has ( but in an earlier state than she ) , and his niece , barbara ( alicia ) , comes all the way from oxford without an english accent to get him away from the butler trade , but soon ( well , not really soon , it takes her 2 hours ) becomes batgirl . 
meanwhile , in an unfinished subplot , bruce ( batman's alter-ego , if you forgot ) has been dating the lovely julie madison ( the even lovlier elle macpherson ) who wants a commitment after a year but he says nothing . 
end of her for all we know . 
mr . freeze ultimately teams with poison ivy and they want to freeze the world and then take it over growing new plants as their population ( don't ask ! ! ! ) . 
the trio must team together " as family " to beat them . 
there ya go . 
not the whole story but no big context clues . 
too much , right ? 
right ! 
the films seems patched together of nice little ideas which would have made for a couple good sequels . 
however , while tim burton nicely balanced the villain/batman storyline ( although not wonderfully ) , joel seems to do almost nothing with batman in this one . 
he gets some corny speeches , a couple clever lines and that's it . 
maybe some stunts . 
for all this , i can't even comment on george clooney as batman - i hardly saw the guy ! 
and when i did , he had horrible dialogue to say . 
i think michael keaton is the quintessential batman but val kilmer was too robotic and fake as batman in the last episode . 
george is in between them . 
he's not quintessential , he's not horrible , he's good . 
but i'm sure next time when they decide to renovate the series since they'll be critically murdered for this sorry effort , we'll get a good script and clooney will shine ( if he still has the job ) . 
the villains are the only interesting part of the series according to schumacher . 
last time , we had the brawn of two face as played by tommy lee jones and the brains/comedy supplied by the riddler as realized by jim carrey . 
this time we have a somewhat sympathetic and somewhat hatable villain ( the same guy ) , mr . freeze . 
we feel bad for his mental/physical collapse but does he really need to kill everyone for plants ? 
arnold isn't very good - too hokey but kinda sympathetic at some points . 
when he watches old movies of his wife , he actually looks somber . 
wow . 
but uma makes the most of her seductive character , getting the right point between hamminess and seductiveness . 
it's like she's almost parodying herself in " pulp fiction " at points . 
she's incredibly hot and makes the movie pretty much a star better . 
as for the lower bat-people , chris is the same as he was in " batman forever , " although i think his work in these is too hokey when he's best at quieter parts in " scent of a woman " or just plain cool parts in " fried green tomotoes . " 
alicia - i love the girl but she's not particularly good in this film . 
she can hypotheitically act , we all saw that in " clueless , " but her lines kinda sound weird . 
and it isn't the mushy-mouth this time . 
but in all fairness , she has virtually no part . 
joel gets around to her occasionally and when she's on , she does stupid stuff . . . although 
i know i'm not the only one who loved the catfight between her and uma . . . 
and poor elle . 
poor , poor elle . 
i love that woman and she can also hypothetically act ( for those of us who saw " sirens " ) . 
but she has no part ! ! ! 
it seems like joel had so much footage that he had to edit almost an hour out of the final product . 
there are no " couch " scenes ( like my best friend noticed ) . 
now listen to me on this one - in every " batman " flick , there's a couch scene . 
in the original , it was with vicki . 
in " returns , " it was a good make-out scene with selena . 
and in the last one , it was a chat with nicole . 
this one , it's nothing . 
and batgirl does next-to-nothing in this film till the end when she's suddenly " part of the family . " 
fortunately , we get a lot of alfred . 
he's the always reliable butler , in case you didn't know , who has been with bruce all his life . 
he's a god . 
he's a father figure . 
he's also dying . 
this got to me . 
i love alfred almost as much as bruce and to see him in a robe , not in his tux , and freaking dying just gets to me . 
we also get the idea that he might have been unhappy the whole time . . . but 
this is never answered , as this film is too cluttered . 
but in defense , it does have some good parts , other than uma . 
for one , george is a good batman but unfortunately gets nothing to do . 
and there are some nice touches . 
when they show the asylum at one point , they show the patient's belongings in a room and we see the riddler's costume . 
i laughed . 
and during a biker scene ( involving robin and batgirl - another subplot never handled past initiation period ) , we not only see coolio but a bunch of bad-asses dressed as " droogs " from " a clockwork orange . " 
i laughed at all these . 
the film falls apart around the five-minute mark during an enormously long action sequence which must last around 20 minutes . . . or 
did it just feel like that ? 
the film should serve as another in the long-line of films which demonstrate that we need more intelligent films nowadays . 
people are fed up with stupid films . 
that's why the word of mouth killed " the lost world ! " 
that's why last year , indy films grossed more than ever . 
that's why this will have a strong box-office initative from people who just want to see it , like me , but will die after a week or two when the word around the grapevine kills it . 
that's why the next two big-budget aciton pics are john woo's " face/off " and barry sonnenfeld's " men in black , " both which are the first two to catch on to the wave early on . 
i like joel schumacher more as a person than an artiste . 
i like some of his films ( " flatliners , " " a time to kill " ) but a lot of them suck . 
he's a really eccentric person and i loved one of his quotes about how he admits to being a mediocre director and that's what makes him great . 
but his costuming for woody allen's " sleeper " was more interesting than this one ( and his costuming was cool - look for the nazi number ) . 
i love the " batman " series . 
the first two rocked and i did like the last one . 
but this one is not going to be one that i watch repeatedly like the other three . 
hopefully , this will also serve as a springboard to a better batman next time . 
and maybe they'll get smart and bring back catwoman . 
and michael keaton . 
but we can only hope . 
writers : dennis feldman and jonathan hensleigh ( based on the comic book by chuck pfarrer ) 
starring : jamie lee curtis , william baldwin , donald sutherland , joanna pacula , sherman augustus , marshall bell , cliff curtis , julio oscar mechoso 
i suppose i'm not extremely surprised that " virus " comes to us from a deciple of james cameron ( john bruno ) , and if i strain real hard , i could even say that it's an obvious given , particuarly looking from the standpoint of mr . cameron's early works . 
in fact , " virus " is yet another in the long line of action/horror/paranoia thrillers from the " aliens " vein : a group of people are dropped into a mysterious situation only to find a mortally-threatening entity is out to get them , a textbook example hailing all the way back to the early talkies , and maybe even to the first pictures , albeit redeveloped by cameron in his 1986 blockbuster that earned him esteem and bigger budgets to come in his future . 
no such thing will happen to bruno , whom i believe worked in some capacity on that quasi-landmark feature ; while bruno may have studied under cameron's wing for years and years , i'm beginning to wonder at what capacity , and what exactly did he learn from him . 
in fact , " virus " should at least be mediocre ; the fact that bruno could have worked under a man like cameron - a director who , if anything , just knows how to make a movie - and then make a film like " virus " is just another detraction fairly aimed at this z-grade schlockfest of a film , albeit a z-grade schlockfest with a respectable budget . 
the film seems to not only borrow it's plot from last year's similarly-fated " deep rising , " but also from a clunkish b-movie from the '80s called " leviathan , " an underwater thriller starring peter weller , richard crenna , hector elizando , and daniel stern about a group of miners who stumble upon an alien lifeform that was part " alien , " part john carpenter's twisted remake of " the thing . " 
 " virus , " again , has a similar , uh , selling point : a group of sailors on a boat stumble upon a russian cruiser that is dead in the water . 
they get on . 
they break up into pairs and investigate . 
and they find an alien lifeform on board that comes in the form of energy , has taken over all the machines on board , have meshed the machines with parts from corpses , and have deemed humankind their enemy because of a misquote in the dictionary ( ha ha ) . 
not that any of this is for a second scary or the least bit involving ; not only does this film start off with a chintzy bond-ian opening ( the destruction of the cruiser via a satellite transmission from mir ) , destroying any of the suspense in what could happen , but it also fails to bring us any interesting chracters . 
of its motley crew , it only choses as its potentially eccentric cast of characters a lead woman skipper , a masculine potential-romantic-interest , a drunken captain , a black technician , a tatooed aborigine , a manic russian survivor , and a couple other candidates for alien food , none whom are the least bit interesting or more dimensional than a thin , plain piece of writing paper . 
and it's not the traditional argument for films like these , where you may in fact want them all to be eaten ( even " aliens " played with the karma of the arrogant soldiers , but this was more of a plus-side for the film as a whole than the opposite ) ; instead , as another cliche goes , you just don't give a damn . 
i almost don't even have to say that the acting from everyone ranges from sub-par to horrific , the former being jamie lee curtis in the lead showing off what a strong female lead she is ( and she is , just not really here ) and the latter being - and it pains me to say this as he's a particular favorite of mine - donald sutherland , who plays the captain so poorly and without a second of credibility that this will go down as the performance-of-which-he-should-be-ashamed . 
like anthony hopkins for " legends of the fall " ( the line " scrooooooo 'em " has been thus embroidered upon my membrance ) . 
or peter o'toole in " caligula . " 
great actor , horrific performance . 
it happens every now and then , and it only helps sutherland's career that no one , except for an elite few , even bothered to see this film . 
though it has sat on the shelves of universal studios for about two years , waiting until it can be released and make as much money as it possibly can ( read : early january , when everyone's still trying to catch up on the potential oscar-nominees ) , it does show that universal shelled out a pretty penny to make this film : it's laden with complex machinery , boasts respectable production design , and it may even feature believable special effects . . . if , of course , i , or anyone else , could see them . 
 " virus " mostly takes place on a large , abandoned cruiser , and mostly at night until the dawn , and mostly without the use of lights , not so much for the productivity of the alien creatures in their pursuit of their human prey , but more so because , as the hollywood cliche seems to go , " if it's dark enough , then the special effects will be more believable . " 
and if you don't believe me , go back and rent " godzilla , " and tell me if there's even one shot where we see godzilla either a ) in his entirety in one wide shot , or b ) n the light so that we can at least see him ( well , you don't really have to sit through it again ; just take my word for it ) . 
but all of this doesn't matter since " virus " is basically just one loud , cluttered mess of a movie . 
the action scenes are muddled and as difficult to follow as any action movie i've ever seen ( my , um , favorite part was the scene where a trio of them end up somehow on the outside of the ship , during a five minute bouillabaisse of tidal waves , rain , and any other ocean-extremeties the film can cook up , then end up back in the ship when one of them is revealed to have apparently drowned - well , i must say , thanks for telling me afterwards because i sure couldn't figure it out when i saw it ) . 
imagine the first attack of the aliens in " aliens , " shot from the pov of the soldiers and then the authorities in the battle car if it was all hard to follow and done without any dramatic intensity , and that's basically the whole of " virus " : one horribly-directed action scene after the other , capping it off with a proposterous gadget that saves the day and at least a couple of the original cast members . 
and my god , it's a long damn sit . 
with no interesting characters , no dramatic urgency , no tension , not one good moment of action , and no mesmerizing visuals , it's a wonder that it even got made . 
we already know that big movie studios' mentality is shallow at best , and movies like " out of sight " and " saving private ryan " give you more faith in them , but movies like " virus " manage to drain a little more out of the pool . 
i almost wish that instead of making this movie , john bruno had gone cinema verite and captured the meetings with universal heads when they gave this film a green light . 
they read the script , they knew they were entrusting millions upon millions of dollars into a director who might have very well been a cameron hack ( and he is ) , and they still went ahead with the project , only to have bruno and company shit back in their face . 
even though i hold universal in contempt for making this horrible movie , i'd say even more contempt should be aimed at mr . bruno for making a movie that could be this bad . 
in fact , shouts of " egad , man , what were you doing when you worked for cameron anyway ? " 
are not only justifiable , but encouraged . 
deuce bigalow ( rob schneider ) cleans fish tanks . 
yeah , i didn't know that was a real job either . 
one of his customers is antoine leconte ( oded fehr ) , a successful gigolo . 
when antoine has to go to sweden for three weeks , he lets deuce use his house to look after an ailing $800 fish . 
fooling around , deuce sets fire to the kitchen and smashes a $6000 fish tank . 
after taking a try at one of antoine's clients and earning $10 , deuce decides to prostitute himself to raise the money to replace the fish tank before the fiery-tempered antoine returns . 
enter t . j . ( eddie griffin ) , a pimp for " man-whores , " who arranges for deuce to service an assortment of women whose imperfections keep them from dating . 
there's an enormous woman ( played by transvestite porn star chi chi la rue ) who hides food in her clothes . 
there's claire ( gail o'grady ) whose narcolepsy causes her to fall asleep every few minutes . 
tina ( torsten voges ) is so tall her face doesn't fit on the screen , and ruth ( amy poehler ) has tourette's syndrome and shouts obscenities without warning . 
finally there's kate ( arija bareikis ) whose sorority sisters secretly paid her fare . 
she seems perfect , and deuce quickly falls in love with her . 
 ( she does , we discover later , have an imperfection , but deuce decides it isn't important . ) 
deuce's life is complicated by a bothersome cop ( william forsythe ) looking for information on antoine and by kate's discovery of his man-whoring . 
however , neither threat generates much suspense . 
the formula is so familiar that we know how it will end from the start . 
 " deuce bigalow " is the first project from adam sandler's company happy madison , the formation of which assures that we'll be seeing the sandler style of comedy mass-produced at an increasing rate in years to come . 
be afraid . 
be very afraid . 
the good news is that sandler doesn't actually appear in " deuce " and that rob schneider and eddie griffin are funnier than sandler . 
schneider has a sweetness that makes the clueless but good-hearted deuce believable . 
griffin's delivery is dead-on , especially in the coining of " technical terms " for t . j . 's profession , as in " don't make me he-bitch man-slap you ! " 
there's the expected amount of toilet humor in " deuce . " 
 ( for one thing , deuce's dad is a men's room attendant ) . 
does anyone over the age of eight actually find bowel movements that funny ? 
for most of us , i think that childhood fascination with bodily functions disappears when we hit the far-side of puberty and discover how funny sex is . 
i , for one , will be glad when the toilet trend is finally flushed . 
bottom line : " deuce " doesn't offer anything new but it is intermittently funny . 
this is your definitive " hollywood " movie , extremely predictable , following the basic formula ( a horrible ending ) , overzealous writing ( meaning the writing was bad and seemed as if it were trying too hard to make it exciting , therefore making it look as if many things were merely tossed in there to fill space ) and if tommy lee jones and his lovable wise-ass character ( of which we've seen before in the fugitive and quite frankly , wasn't used enough here ) , i'm afraid the film would have been completely unbearable . 
in this film , ashley judd plays a women who is wrongfully convicted of killing her husband while out sailing for a weekend . 
while in jail she finds out that her husband really is alive and that he framed the murder on her . 
over money ( how original ) . 
while in jail she works out , exercises and basically does her best to get into near perfect condition . 
now she has learned about a law titled " double jeopardy " stating that if she serves her full sentence and get out she could kill her husband and the law could not touch her ( although there has been talk that this is not the way the actual law works ) . 
now her po ( parole officer ) , and a bunch of cops are chasing after her and are conflicted whether or not to believe her claims . 
skipping over to the acting : the fact that judd is more of a looker than an actress ( no offense , she has been good [simon birch] and even very good to great [kiss the girls] at times , in the past and i believe may have the potential to be better . . . 
but she's terribly unconvincing in this and her performance seems stale and unsatisfying ) doesn't really add to the movie at all ; just takes away . 
as i'd said , jones was fine , although he did not have much to work with . 
he was much more of a supporting character . 
which is fine , and he handled it well ; especially considering the material he had to work with . 
i feel this film had alot going for it . 
originality not being an issue . 
the acting was the only thing ( as i said ) keeping it alive . 
the plot seemed pretty intriguing and could have been as well if applied better . 
the action scenes were well made ( however sometimes out of place ) . 
i was just left unsatisfied in the long run . 
so basically some of the action may have been exciting but genuinely over-thought , the plot has certainly been done before ( generally speaking ) , the movie moves way too fast for us to get involved in either the characters or the plot , and is basically a film that was almost saved by tommy lee jones , who if he had some more screentime , could perhaps have earned the film a higher rating ; in my book , anyway . 
keep this in mind , if you're in the mood for a good action film -- rent the fugitive . 
d+ 
dead-bang , an action thriller starring don johnson , lives up to its dumb title , or at least to half of it . 
although dead-bang is definitely dead , it is anything but a bang ; in fact , they should have called this one " dead bore . " 
in the film , johnson plays . . . 
you guessed it . . . 
a cop . 
the role must have been really challenging for johnson since his character , jerry beck , is a gritty los angeles homicide detective , a real stretch from the slick vice detective johnson portrayed on " miami vice . " 
a la mel gibson in lethal weapon , beck is an emotional wreck , complete with violent outbursts , unscrupulous police methods , and a bleak outlook on life . 
beck's wife has just divorced him , and she is cutting him off from their children . 
she will not even allow him to wish them " merry christmas " by telephone . 
but beck's family and emotional problems take a back seat to the action and thrills in dead-bang . 
beck is investigating the brutal murders of a shopkeeper and a cop . 
his investigation starts in l . a . and finally culminates and climaxes in oklahoma , where he has a violent showdown with the killers at a white supremacist camp . 
virtually every aspect of dead-bang is inept and ineffective . 
the plot is incoherent and full of holes . 
the movie depicts beck's investigation so clumsily that you never see the connections between his clues and his conclusions . 
the action sequences in dead-bang are strictly third-rate , and the movie has absolutely no momentum or suspense . 
i certainly expected more from long-time director john frankenheimer who directed the classic political thriller , the manchurian candidate--as well as black sunday , seven days in may , and the french connection ii . 
in all fairness to frankenheimer , however , i should note that most of dead-bang's shortcomings seem to stem from its shabby script rather than from the direction . 
dead-bang tries to don a mask of social relevance by incorporating themes of racism and white supremacy , but its efforts are nothing more than token gestures and nothing less than insulting . 
according to the movie's production notes , dead-bang is based on the real-life experiences of still-active detective jerry beck . 
you would never guess this from watching dead-bang , however , since the film totally lacks credibility ; it is utterly unconvincing and unbelievable . 
most of the characters in dead-bang are either atrociously acted , underdeveloped , superfluous , or all of the above . 
william forsythe , for example , is painfully bad as arthur kressler , a wholesome by-the-book fbi agent who's offended by beck's foul language and unorthodox methods . 
forsythe's lame performance and corny dialogue makes his character unbearable . 
dead-bang marks the motion picture debut of tim reid ( " wkrp in cincinnati " and " frank's place " ) , but his talents are completely wasted in a cliched and contrived role ; he plays the chief officer of a squadron of black cops who help beck to nail the villains . 
the sole function of penelope ann miller's character is to give dead-bang an excuse to include a gratuitous love scene between characters about whom you could not care less . 
i guess the film's title refers to this love scene since it's definitely a dead bang . 
the only real virtue of dead-bang , believe it or not , is don johnson , who tries to overcome the limitations of the movie's pitiful script . 
johnson succeeds in giving his character a sarcastic sense of humor and a hint of depth , and his pessimistic wisecracks occasionally bring the film to life . 
and i must admit that dead-bang does have one or two amusing moments . 
the funniest scene has johnson throwing-up all over a criminal as he interrogates him . 
but when barf is the highlight of a movie , you know the movie's in trouble . 
the other amusing scene involves a psychological examination of beck , in which he can't keep a straight face because the psychiatrist resembles woody allen . 
but two funny scenes and a couple good wisecracks do not a movie make . 
it was once said that in order to truly enjoy some of todays movies or novels , you must suspend disbelief .  
however , there is a distinct separation between opening your mind to ridiculous situations and believing a bunch of flat lies . 
it came as no surprise to me to learn that huntingburg , indiana ( where the film is set ) , does not have a mcdonald's , a sears store , a statue of a man on a horse , nor even a dam close by . 
even if you can ignore these somewhat white lies ( even though the dam is crucial to hard rains plot ) ; there is still a bunch of things that just dont gel . 
firstly , morgan freeman , possibly the greatest actor alive ( after such films as driving miss daisy , the shawshank redemption and se7en ) , was cast as a shifty goon intent on stealing enough money for a healthy retirement . 
he _should_ have played the town sheriff , an experienced and somewhat intriguing policeman . 
as a massive flood started by a dam accident overwhelms huntingburg , its residents presumably flee as the water level steadily increases . 
i say presumably simply because we never know what happened to them ; and it seems a tad strange that an entire town ( with the exception of some folk who get introduced along the way ) can vanish before the flood has actually started . 
but nether the less , armored guard couriers tom ( christian slater ) and his uncle are carrying three million dollars in the back of their van . 
with a heavy rainstorm causing depressing conditions and slippery roads , it doesnt take long for the van to end up stuck amongst mud and water off the side of the road . 
jim ( morgan freeman ) and a small gang of thieves locate the van and attempt to steal the three million dollars . 
but of course tom is more than willing to save the day , so he takes the money and hides it elsewhere in town . 
the local sheriff ( randy quaid , whom most will remember as the drunken pilot in id4 ) and a couple of police men investigate the situation , but their morals are soon overpowered by greediness as each character contemplates what he/she would do with their share of the three million dollars . 
director mikael salomon has made sure that hard rain ends up turning everything topsy-turvy , and whilst the film may at first appear to be a definite goodies versus baddies ,  there are numerous twists in its plot that make this a slightly more enjoyable experience . 
but by the time these interesting changes occur , its far too late in the film for them to have much affect . 
hard rains continuos corniness and lack of originality washes out whatever hope the script may have had ; and although its cast is somewhat appealing most of its stars act well below par . 
not at one stage capturing what could have been a fabulous on screen battle between slater and freeman , we are left to reminisce on films that dared to do something different and achieved more than what was expected . 
such titles as broken arrow ( slater and john travolta ) and face/off ( nicholas cage and john travolta ) come to mind as films that have mastered silver screen confrontations . 
strangely enough , they were both directed by john woo and both star john travolta . 
we can forgive morgan freeman for giving a slightly disappointing performance since he is newish to the action genre , but christian slater could have achieved so much more had the amount of crummy one liners been reduced and some personality added to his character . 
if you had asked me whether slater could perform well enough to substantially boost a movie prior to the release of broken arrow , my answer would have been a definite no . 
i now know that he has no excuse , and _can_ do better ( if you dont believe me rent a copy of broken arrow from your local video store ) . 
although hard rain never really works from the start , i somehow felt feelings of missed opportunity when the credits filled the screen . 
the addition of an enticing sub-plot would have given the film time to breathe , rather than try to cram 96 minutes of action and disaster into a story that cant handle anything else . 
despite the fact that hard rain fails on almost every account , if your standards are low enough you may find this to be a mildly enjoyable film . 
no creative flair and no inventive scenes means that hard rain does not stand up well against its many competitors , but it doesnt really matter since the last thing you would want to do after shelling about $8 . 50 is compare this to other films . 
 " some houses are born bad , " goes the haunting's tag line , to which i must add , " some movies , too . " 
nothing short of hiring a new cast , a more literate screenwriter , and a new director could have saved this tragically misguided adaptation of jackson's meritorious novel . 
the haunting is late entry summer dreck too slick to be creepy , and its seemingly endless stream of digital trickery and spooky ooky sound effects don't frighten so much as numb the audience into submission-the film is like a rube goldberg contraption rigged to shout " boo . " 
fragile nell ( taylor ) , bisexual theo ( zeta-jones ) , and smiley luke ( wilson ) are three insomniacs who gather at the reputedly possessed hill house for an extended study on sleep disorders , hosted by professor marrow ( neeson ) . 
marrow's secretly gathering data on their respective paranoid responses to his recount of hill house's bleak history . 
he's not prepared for the very real apparitions that terrorize the crew , nell especially , who has some ancestral connection to the manor's previous inhabitants . 
taylor is thoroughly insufferable in her first big-budget lead . 
for starters , her consistently dour expression sucks the life out of even the early scenes , when we're introduced to the mansion and all its fun-house trappings . 
her character is supposed to be depressed , having tended to an unloving mother for too many years , but taylor plays nell as supernaturally lame , alternately grouchy , mopey , wiggy and pathetic , and i kept wondering why the other characters didn't just ditch this bitch . 
as for the obscenely photogenic zeta-jones , she breezes through her scenes with a wink and a smile and takes the scenery with her . 
unfortunately , she's saddled with some of the most unlikely dialogue the screenplay has to offer . 
theo's assessment of the house ? 
 " i love it ! 
sort of charles foster kane meets the munsters . " 
who on earth would say that in place of " citizen kane meets the munsters " ? 
 ( furthermore , would you gladly spend a single night in a house befitting that description ? ) 
both actresses fare better than neeson , who looks embarrassed to be a part of this ensemble ( and for good reason ) , and his character is the most bland . 
as luke puts it , dr . marrow pulls the old " academic bait and switch " on his subjects , but he breaks down and confesses to this the second he's accused . 
later , he risks his life by climbing a crumbling stairwell to save nell ( it's amusing to hear neeson shout " nell " repeatedly , given his starring role in the 1994 jodie foster vehicle of the same name ) . 
why was this nice , helpful , and redemptive researcher so absent of ethics at the start ? 
the haunting was well designed by eugenio zanetti . 
his sets are obsessively detailed , and even before the cgi kicks in , they seem alive , never quite still . 
i do have one beef with this aspect of the production : the real life mansion used in exterior shots , nottinghamshire's harlaxton manor , is so vast that one has trouble believing that nell and company , no matter how much running away they do from ghosts and goblins , always finish up in locations that were established in act one , as if all the action has been confined to one wing of hill house . 
eighty million dollars was spent on the haunting , and despite a powerhouse box office debut , i doubt it will recoup its costs ( including marketing ) domestically . 
thank jan de bont for that : proving for the third time that speed was a fluke , in that it was actually enjoyable , de bont has served up another ride , sans thrill . 
his images , well-lit though they are , have an unmistakable been there-done that quality ; in fact , whole sequences , not to mention the cloaked , airy ghoul who owns the climax , feel lifted from a much smarter and infinitely more enjoyable spectacle from three summers back , peter jackson's the frighteners . 
i don't mean to suggest de bont is a plagiarist , i mean to suggest that he's a hack , having found no new ways to give us chills . 
play it to the bone is a punch-drunk mess of a movie . 
containing a good cast but awful acting ; an interesting premise but terrible execution , ron shelton ( white men can't jump ) gives us a rocky story with not one rocky but two . 
rocky no . 1 is vince boudreau ( woody harrelson , edtv ) , a bald , tattooed , newly converted christian , whose idea of christianity is not using the name of christ as a curse word . . . 
something that he has not yet successfully achieved . 
rocky no . 2 is caesar dominguez ( antonio banderas , the 13th warrior ) , best friend of vince who is currently dating vince's ex-girlfriend , grace . 
both men are nearing the end of their " almost " careers when a fluke provides them with a redemptive opportunity . 
when both fighters of the undercard of a vegas based mike tyson title fight become incapacitated , the fight promoters need to find a quick replacement . 
our boys are tapped to fight each other , the winner of which is " promised " a shot at a future title fight . 
the film is divided into two sections . 
at first , we have a buddy road picture as our two heroes , in grace's " sassy grassy " green muscle car , travel through the desert to vegas in order to make the fight scheduled for that day . 
along the way we learn about their pasts and the opportunities that have come and gone by . 
once in vegas , the movie settles down to the effectively staged fight sequences between vince and caesar . 
both mr . harrelson and mr . banderas have provided us with stunning characterizations in the past , not that we'd know it from their work here . 
mr . harrelson is uncomfortably awkward , apparently never having gotten a firm handle on vince . 
the christian conversion angle simply falls flat and unbelievable . 
mr . banderas is uncharacteristically non-charismatic as caesar . 
weak and ineffectual , there is little life in his screen performance . 
the other actors involved merely play stereotypes of one sort or another . 
tom sizemore ( saving private ryan ) , robert wagner ( austin powers ii : the spy who shagged me ) , and richard masur ( fire down below ) are crooked promoters , lucy liu ( payback ) is a sex-starved hitchhiker looking for a good time , and lolita davidovich ( gods and monsters ) , is the shared girlfriend who can't make her mind up which boxer she prefers . 
because of the weak characters and the lack of screen chemistry between them , the film flounders with all the appeal of a dead fish until the boxing match actually begins . 
but even then , because the outcome is so predictably obvious , the suspense factor is negated and we are relegated to just watching two men pummel each other . 
writer/director ron shelton clearly spent much time orchestrating the fight sequence as it is well photographed , well-choreographed , well-edited , and well-performed . 
if only some of that same detailed attention had been diverted to the remaining parts of the film . 
as it is , the scenes which require the characters to actually talk to one another are weak and laughable . 
the title is actually the most interesting aspect of the film . 
the phrase , " play it to the bone' is a reference to seeing something all the way through or not quitting until you've achieved your desired goal . 
that is a biblical principle . 
 " know ye not that they which run in a race run all , but one receiveth the prize ? 
so run , that ye may obtain . " 
1 corinthians 9 : 24 [kjv] 
achieving anything worthy in life requires " playing it to the bone " . 
we need to develop fully persuaded mindsets and commitment levels in order to endure and persevere past the obstacles and distractions which lay between us and our stated objectives . 
this is true in practical matters of our physical lives as well as the in the developing maturity of our spiritual lives . 
as a movie , play it to the bone is hardly worth our time . 
but as a principle of life , the phrase " play it to the bone " are words to live by . 
i have no real tangible proof of this , but i swear that there are a lot of producers in hollywood who adamantly believe that if you take a bad script , written by a bad writer and give the project it to an equally bad director , then it is actually possible to make a good movie . 
using their logic , all that really needs be done to change the bad movie into a good movie is cast a bunch of super-famous actors and provide an almost unlimited production budget . 
this is the only way i can fathom how 20th century fox hired jon amiel in order to direct this eighty million dollar waste of my time ( not counting the time it took me to get to and from the theatre ) . 
now , before i continue to ferociously attack what's wrong with this film , i just want to point out that one of the reasons it fails so miserably is because it does have the potential to be an exciting thriller . 
catherine zeta-jones plays virginia baker , an insurance investigator tracking down an infamous art thief named robert macdougal ( sean connery ) . 
if you've ever seen any hollywood blockbuster before , i really don't have to spend too much time on frivolous plot details : the two team up for various jobs , stealing various things for various purposes . 
the problem we come to is that we've all seen this a few billion times before and this film doesn't break any new ground in the big-budget/hollywood/action genre . 
the result is that the entire production feels contrived . 
i'm going to be completely honest here : pretty much the only thing keeping me awake throughout the run-time was looking at catherine zeta-jones . 
now while this may be a compliment for ms . zeta-jones , it certainly isn't for either the writers or the director , who are not nearly as clever as they think they are . 
just about the most profound thought they can inject into this film is when they have macdougal lecture baker on the semantic difference between " entrapment " and " blackmail " . 
with an eighty million dollar budget , you'd think that entrapment would at least feature edge-of-your seat action scenes or breathtaking special f/x . 
well , you'd be wrong . 
the action that is present in this film takes place in a huge skyscraper and is relatively unspectacular . 
unfortunately for all those involved with entrapment , die hard narrowly beat it to the screen by ? 11 years . 
the reality is that after 15 minutes of watching this picture , you know exactly what's going to happen , despite rather pathetic attempts in the screenplay to throw in plot twists . 
many scenes seem to exist merely as a reason to outfit zeta-jones in extremely tight-fitting clothing . 
one particular scene features baker crawling around trying to avoid laser-beams while she tries to steal an ancient chinese mask . 
nothing wrong with that , but she entered the room from the floor and knew exactly where the mask was - so why didn't she and macdougal tunnel in directly under the mask instead of the other side of the room ? 
i'll tell you why : because it's a great excuse to photograph zeta-jones' posterior as it slides underneath those beams ( and it also allows a second scene of the exact same thing - the rehearsal ) . 
ving rhames also makes an appearance in this movie , and though he has great screen presence ( although so do connery and zeta-jones ) and the most interesting character in the film , not even he can rescue this film from the depths of the boring film abyss ( a concept i invented just to describe this picture ) . 
one last complaint : entrapment is littered of instances where macdougal will just slip into a shadow or behind a building , or he becomes obstructed by a moving vehicle and then in the next shot , he'll spontaneously disappear in ninja-like fashion . 
i can picture amiel patting himself on the back , thinking to himself " it'll leave the audience wondering for days : how did he do that ? " 
we know jon , it's called editing . 
when i originally saw the trailer for " analyze this " a few months ago , i must admit , i thought it looked kind of lame . 
and then when the commercials started popping up a week or two ago , i thought it looked outright bad . 
but then when " analyze this " finally opened a few days ago , an odd thing happened . 
it got great reviews . 
critics were proclaiming it " hilarious " and a " dead-on parody of mob movies " . 
well , with praise like that , i figured , it must be good and so i headed off to the theater . 
you know that expression that says always trust your gut instincts ? 
well , turns out that expression is more valid than i ever gave it credit for . 
 " analyze this " is slow , unfunny , and badly acted . 
don't get me wrong , i think that deniro is one of the top ten greatest actors of the century , but he is just out of his league here . 
i think the problem is he didn't quite know how to approach this material . 
he plays his character , mob boss paull vitti , somewhere in between the realm of comedy and drama . 
if he had played the character straight , along the lines of leslie nielson in the " naked gun " series , he probably would have been a lot more successful . 
as it is , though , he plays the character completely serious at some moments , and for laughs at others . 
this doesn't work . 
it creates an uneven character that never breaks out of the deniro mold ; you always know it's him . 
and the movie is badly paced , too . 
it never takes off . 
it just crawls from one scene to another without any forward momentum . 
i think the blame for this should be placed on the script . 
it's obvious the writer had a good idea for a movie , mob boss faces breakdown and needs the services of a psychiatrist , but once this is established , the movie doesn't really go anywhere . 
the formula of the film seems to be this : billy crystal says no to deniro , deniro forces him , and much wackiness ensues . 
this formula of sorts is repeated several times throughout the movie . 
i've said it before and i'll say it again : the only thing that matters to me in a comedy is whether or not it's funny . 
if " analyze this " had been funny , the pacing and bad acting wouldn't have bothered me . 
i would have been too busy laughing to notice . 
but as it is , i only chuckled a few times . 
the only really funny scene is a dead-on parody of " the godfather " . 
sadly , though , i don't think anyone in the audience i saw it with realized it was a parody , because i was the only one laughing . 
but my sense of humour , i have come to realize , is vastly different from the general population . 
i loathed " there's something about mary " , yet loved " baseketball " . 
now , if you want a movie that * i * think is funny , go out and see " office space " . 
it's full of genuine laughs and won't leave you glancing at your watch every 10 minutes , as " analyze this " did . 
jean-claude van damme movies tend to be , if nothing else , a lot of mindless fun . 
his latest film , " knock off , " skips on the fun part leaving a wildly incoherent exercise that is , well , simply mindless . 
you can't really blame van damme . 
no one , i suspect , has ever expected " the muscles from brussels " to contribute a heartfelt performance brimming with introspection and delicate shades of gray . 
and even his sidekick co-star , " saturday night live " alumnus rob " makin' copies " schneider , does what's expected of him , although neither appear to want the role of straight man . 
no , the problem with the film is its direction . 
the first five minutes of the film are incomprehensible . . . 
and it goes downhill from there ! 
five hundred characters , it seems , are introduced within the first fifteen minutes . 
van damme doesn't land his first kick until after thirty--too late for most action fans--and by the time the hour mark has rolled around , your jaw will be on your cup holder and you'll be wondering why you elected to spend seven dollars on this mess . 
director hark tsui , whose previous film was the van damme/dennis rodman teamed " double team , " films at such a frenetic pace that it's hard to know what's going on , who's on whose side , and what the point of all this is . 
faster than you can yell " fruit stand ! " 
we're watching a crazed rickshaw race with schneider being bounced along by an energetic van damme . 
when schneider starts whacking van damme in the behind with a four-foot eel while enthusing " move your beautiful big ass , " the movie takes an unprecedented turn to the bizarre . 
every now and again " knock off " will deliver some truly ingenious directorial flourishes--inventive camera shots and angles , wild rides down gun silencers and from the tops of buildings to the sprawling street below , revealing cut-ins within the frame--but they all happen too quickly , and within such a furious frame of reference , that they're wasted . 
if only hark could have slowed things down just for a minute . 
if you're interested in the plot , you're better off reading a capsule review than trying to extract any meaning from the on-screen shenanigans : " jean-claude van damme plays a shady bluejeans manufacturer who uncovers a russian mafia plot to terrorize the world with " nanobombs " hidden in cabbage patch knock-offs . 
maybe . 
with paul sorvino . " 
a more accurate summary would be " jean-claude van damme bums around hong kong failing to avoid large , blatant coca-cola product placements . " 
the fact that the film is staged during hong kong's last days under british rule gets some lip service but doesn't figure in at all . 
perhaps " knock off " 's most intriguing credit is that ron and russell mael composed the frenzied music score . 
some of you might remember the mael brothers as the '80s synth pop duo sparks ; their contributions here are as confused as the accompanying action-- " kimono my house " indeed ! 
like the cheap jeans and " pumma " sneakers manufactured in hong kong , van damme's latest is a real phony . 
in " twilight , " a ex-alcoholic , ex-cop , ex-husband , ex-private-eye , harry ross ( paul newman ) , works for a pair of aging hollywood actors , catherine ( susan sarandon ) and jack ames ( gene hackman ) . 
jack is being blackmailed , and he asks harry to deliver the payoff . 
instead of the blackmailers , harry finds a dying ex-cop ( m . 
emmet walsh ) . 
as more bodies begin to pile up , harry realizes that he will have to solve the disappearance of catherine's first husband twenty years earlier to find out who's willing to kill to keep that secret buried . 
newman . sarandon . 
hackman . 
with an a-list cast of oscar laureates like that , " twilight " would seem very promising . 
however , the script is tired and predictable . 
it would serve well as a tv-movie-of-the-week , possibly with some 1970's detective hero reprising his role . 
the appeal of the project for its stars and its director , robert benton , is nostalgia . 
 " twilight " wants very much to be a 1940's film noir with alan ladd or dick powell . 
all of the standard tropes are here : a hard-boiled p . i . 
among the rich and beautiful whose glamour hides sinister secrets , a femme fatale who tempts and confounds the hero , shadowy figures shooting from doorways , dead bodies confronting the hero at every turn , cops dogging his path and interfering with his investigation . 
the script offers little originality , and co-authors benton and richard russo seem unaware that what was original in 1948 is a clich ? in 1998 . 
elmer bernstein's score is hauntingly melodic and could have been drawn note-for-note from a vintage noir . 
the lead actors try hard-none of the three has every made less than a full effort , even when burdened with a bad script . 
they try to invest every line and gesture with meaning , and they create a convincing sense of the relationships between the main characters . 
harry is fond of jack but is in love with catherine . 
jack is dying of cancer and is jealous of harry's love for catherine . 
catherine teases harry and enjoys his attention , but her real feelings are hidden beneath a carefully-maintained veneer . 
 " twilight " wants to be character-driven like " nobody's fool " ( also directed by benton , also starring newman , based on a novel by russo ) was , but the tired script gives the actors too little to work with . 
 " twilight " also squanders a fine supporting cast : stockard channing ( harry's friend on the police force ) , reese witherspoon ( jack & catherine's bratty kid ) , giancarlo esposito ( the humorous sidekick ) , john spencer ( harry's nemesis on the force ) , liev schreiber and margo martindale ( the blackmailers ) , and james garner ( a cop who bailed movie stars out of trouble ) . 
there was probably a good reason that the warner bros . studio chose not to allow critics to view this steven seagal film when it first opened . 
and , after seeing this piece of toxic waste , i now know why . 
this movie is by far the worst offering that has hit the screen since possibly those ernest movies years ago . 
fire down below centers its story on a little mining town in god's country , somewhere in eastern kentucky . 
it's beauty and natural goodness is being slowly destroyed by an uncaring mining magnate ( kris kristopherson , who constantly looks like he wants to kill his agent for getting him this role ) . 
it turns out that he's filling the mines throughout kentucky with toxic waste for a tidy profit . 
seagal plays jack taggert , an aikido-versed , fighting machine , who is an agent with the epa . 
no . . . not the cia nor the fbi nor the nsa . 
it's the environmental protection agency . 
i had no idea that epa agents were trained to be killers ! 
taggert is sent to find the perpetrators and to bring them to justice . 
written by someone named jeb , i could already envision the stereotypes of incestuous relationships , banjo-picking preachers , and dumb-as-nails rednecks . 
but the script puts seagal right smack dab in the middle of all of these scenarios as he tries to discreetly fit in . 
seagal's idea of a disguise is a long-length $1000 leather jacket . 
but to get closer to the kinfolk , he will fix people's porches for free . 
that's another great epa asset - teaching agents how to fix porches . 
slow and plodding , this project is a total mess . 
the sometimes allure of watching seagal is watching him outmaneuver enemies that outnumber and outgun him like in under seige . 
here , his bravado basically turns into bullyness . 
townsfolk who are foolish enough to challenge seagal are quickly subdued . 
fight scenes are quick and senseless and offers no enjoyment value whatsoever . 
and his soap box message wears thin within the first 15 minutes . 
the most annoying moment comes when he barges into the middle of a sunday church ceremony , gets behind the pulpit , and beseeches the townsfolk to take control of their lives and to help clean up the environment . 
but the epitome of how moralistically mushy this film gets happens when the person responsible for the toxic dumping , kristopherson , meets up with seagal . 
kristopherson asks seagal how much it will take for him to go away . 
seagal gallantly replies : " i'll leave when you take the poison from the streams and the earth . " 
i was expecting patriotic music to start blasting and a show of fireworks in the background . 
this is truly nothing more than a pompous showcase for seagal's righteousness and narcissistic arrogance . 
seagal has been vanguard in trying to bring a new genre into the filmplace , that of the enviro-thriller ( on deadly ground ) . 
however , the message will never come across through poorly developed vehicles like this . 
still , i believe in preserving mother earth , so save your $5 and please donate it instead to some worthy environmentally conscious charity . 
tom dicillo directs this superficial comedy about superficial people in superficial careers , all searching for deeper meaning . 
however , they won't find much meaning in the real blonde , and not enough real humor , either . 
joe ( matthew modine ) is a struggling actor , or he claims to be one , even though he has no credits under his belt . 
his girlfriend , mary ( catherine keener ) has no pretensions about her career : she's a makeup artist , working for the eccentric fashion photographer blair ( marlo thomas ) and supermodel of the month , sahara ( bridgette wilson ) . 
sahara , who has acquired a new age spirituality from repeated viewing of the little mermaid , has an on-again , off-again relationship with joe's best friend , bob ( maxwell caulfield ) . 
however , bob has gotten his biggest break yet : a starring role on a soap opera opposite the beautiful kelly ( daryl hannah ) , who may be that illusive woman he's always pursued : a real blonde . 
there are some moments of good humor in the real blonde , but not enough . 
the best stuff is in throwaway details in the background , such as sahara's perfume ads : " depression - it's not just a state of mind " . 
but to find humor in the superficiality of models and actors is to shoot fish in a barrel . 
and , unfortunately , the film's forays outside the realm of comedy are pathetic . 
take for example the film's framing device of an old lady and her dog . 
the story serves absolutely no purpose , makes little sense , and is completely tangential to the main plotlines of the movie . 
matthew modine and catherine keener have the most sympathetic characters in the film , but they're stuck in the most boring plotlines . 
modine whines and complains and would be completely pathetic if he was matched against someone stronger than elizabeth berkley , who appears as another struggling actor . 
keener's character has a stronger edge , but the insult self-defense class ( taught by denis leary , no less ) she is stuck in makes little sense . 
the movie's running time is under two hours , but it seems like it is well over it . 
there's just not enough humor to speed things along , and not enough meaning to propel any drama . 
the ads for " batman and robin " scream " the event of the summer is here " and that's the problem . 
the producers were apparently so intent on creating a spectacle that they forgot to put an actual movie inside of it . 
 " batman and robin " is 126 minutes of lavish sets , flashy costumes and big , confusing fight scenes with barely a hint of substance . 
it's like one of those cheesy kings island stage shows ; bright , busy and visually diverting , but not very much fun . 
it wasn't always this way . 
tim burton's " batman " was an epic story of obsession and duality , of darkness and revenge . 
the film , while far from perfect , was a striking mood piece with an otherworldly feel . 
batman was a creepy , brooding creature of the night . 
the joker , brilliantly overplayed by jack nicholson , was at once charismatic and repellent . 
batman and the joker were opposite sides of the same coin , battling inner demons and one another over gotham city's breathtaking gothic skyline . 
those days of the dark knight are gone , replaced by a psychedelic ice capades run amuck . 
 " batman and robin " has far more in common with the campy 60's batman tv show than with tim burton's tale of darkness . 
the blame lies with director joel schumacher . 
a former window-dresser , schumacher is adept at decorating sets and dressing people in exotic costumes . 
unfortunately , when it comes time to have those people walk and talk , he hasn't the faintest notion of what to do . 
 " batman and robin " is overstuffed with intricately choreographed fight scenes so poorly edited that it's often difficult to tell who's whacking who . 
while the characters flail at each other , one-liners and bad puns are tossed about like confetti . 
a few carefully placed jokes can set an action movie sailing , but too many wisecracks can undermine the momentum of a film . 
 " batman and robin " doesn't merely lose momentum , it stalls out completely on several occasions . 
it's rare to see an action flick as sluggish as this one . 
ironically , the parts of " batman and robin " that work are the ones showing the characters in street clothing , and most of those succeed because of george clooney as bruce wayne . 
easily the best batman yet , clooney's expressive eyes and weary smile gives the character a sense of depth that the script doesn't even hint at . 
the film's most effective scene is a tender , quiet exchange between clooney and alfred ( michael gough ) , bruce wayne's butler and surrogate father . 
as for the other heroes , chris o'donnell's robin is enthusiastic , perky and horny as hell , while pudgy alicia silverstone is hard to accept as an athlete in her debut as batgirl . 
in a movie filled to the brim with major characters , the decision to add the entirely unnecessary batgirl and elle macpherson as bruce wayne's girlfriend is puzzling . 
i suspect the producers inserted the women in an attempt to convince audiences that two guys who run around in rubber suits with built-in nipples , shapely buttocks and huge codpieces are actually straight . 
of course , the real stars of a batman film are the villains and that's where " batman and robin " really suffers . 
as mr . freeze , arnold schwarzenegger gives his worst performance in years , spitting out a stream of lame catch phrases in wooden fashion . 
laboring under a ton of appliances , schwarzenegger looks as if he's having trouble even moving in his suit , let alone trying to act . 
uma thurman fares somewhat better as poison ivy . 
she overacts terribly in the early establishing scenes of her character ( it's apparently a rule in the batman series that before a person becomes a villain , s/he must be a cartoonish , bumbling nerd ) . 
once thurman transforms into the eco-psychotic poison ivy , she does a nice mae west impersonation as a classic vamp who can seduce men with her breath and kill them with a kiss . 
thurman fails to maintain the character's maniacal sense of style though , and ends up merely sputtering her way through the latter scenes of the film . 
the biggest lesson to be learned from " batman and robin " is that more is not better . 
joel schumacher fills the screen with eye candy ; but the technicolor overkill merely emphasizes what a trifle the film really is . 
some critics suggest that the batman series has run out of steam . 
i don't think so . 
my prescription ? 
fire joel schumacher ( but offer him a ticket to a rubber fetishist's convention so he'll understand that there's no hard feelings ) . 
give alicia silverstone her walking papers , while keeping clooney , o'donnell and michael gough . 
call jack nicholson and michelle pfieffer and beg them to reprise their roles as the joker and catwoman . 
then , ditch the campiness and , for the love of pete , lose the " event " mentality and make a movie instead of a spectacle next time . 
 " gordy " is not a movie , it is a 90-minute-long " sesame street " skit , and a very bad one at that . 
this movie is so stupid and dumb that it's depressing to think that some hollywood executives actually gave this the green light , and even more surprising is the fact that this is a disney movie . 
i'm sure children are the target audience of this movie , but only kids under the age of five may be able to tolerate it . 
it is the story of a farm a piglet named gordy ( voiced by garms ) , whose family has been taken away to " up north , " which we know means death . 
of course we can hear the animals talk to each other , and they actually went to the trouble of attempting to sync the voices with their mouths but it comes out terrible . 
actually , it's almost funny in a way . 
the only remotely interesting and likable character soon appears , a little girl named jinnie sue macallister ( young ) who sees gordy on the back of a truck and essentially steals him . 
jinnie is a country singer and the film goes off on a huge tangent to show her little concert and the people dancing to it . 
what is the point of this ? 
maybe she is one of the producer's relatives and they wanted to show her on camera to promote her or something . 
we then cut to a huge social gathering and drop in on another young kid named hank royce ( roescher ) who is sad because his divorced mother is dating . 
he leaves the party and meets jinnie sue , but he accidentally falls in a pool ( probably because he was sitting on the diving board with a $200 suit on - nah , didn't see that one coming ! ) , 
starts to drown , and is miraculously saved as gordy pushes an inflatable float over to him and saves him . 
if this had not been insanely stupid already the story quickly changes when jinnie gives gordy to hank who then ends up becoming the ceo of a food processing corporation when hank's grandfather , the original ceo , dies and leaves his fortune to hank . . . 
and gordy ! 
of course there must be a villain , but even this villain ( donadio as sipes ) isn't that evil . 
he never raises his voice or becomes angry , and of course he has the typical idiot goons kidnap gordy but this is just so beyond stupid and cartoony we are constantly two steps ahead of the story . 
it's hard to tell whether the overall corniness and cheesiness to the movie is intentional because it is a family film , or if the filmmaker's are just this untalented and stupid . 
at times " gordy " is tolerable to watch , thus earning it one star and not the dreaded " z- . " 
but it's just so unbelievably boring , cliche , dumb , unfunny , corny , and just plain bad it may scare children , it certainly disturbed me . 
 ( 4/21/96 ) ( 1/29/97 ) ( 6/13/97 ) [see also : " babe " ] 
senseless ( r ) marlon wayans is a very talented physical comedian , and it is that gift that brings senseless moments of life . 
alas , moments are simply that , moments , which are not enough to lift this fantasy/comedy above its one-joke premise . 
granted , that one joke is initially amusing . 
when wayans's darryl witherspoon , an economics major at stratford university , hits some dire financial straits , he becomes a guinea pig for a experimental drug that heightens all five senses . 
after some initial side effects and problems controlling his superhuman senses , darryl learns to enjoy the benefits of his abilities and uses them to land a position at a highly esteemed corporate firm . 
at this point , the film sounds more like senseful than senseless , but through some turns of the plot , darryl finds himself only able to use four of his five senses at once , essentially leaving him--yes--senseless . 
this sets up some showcase moments for wayans's gift for physical comedy , especially when darryl loses his sense of feeling and his body goes completely , hilariously limp . 
but these gags , and the gag behind the entire movie , quickly grows stale . 
once darryl is shown without the use of all of the senses , instead of exploring any new comic territory , director penelope spheeris and screenwriters greg erb and craig mazin take the easy way out and simply recycle each form of senselessness . 
wayans approaches each go-round with gusto , but by this point he's simply treading water for the rest of the film's unfunny duration . 
senseless would not be as problematic as it is if it didn't strive to be anything more than a comic trifle . 
however , the raucous and often raunchy comedy is wrapped in a blanket of bogus sincerity . 
darryl goes through the experiment in order to help his cash-strapped family , and this " serious " angle seems to come from an entirely different movie . 
unlike wayans's last starring vehicle , the surprisingly effective ( and serious ) the 6th man , the " emotional " content of senseless is forced and unconvincing . 
any attempt at anything more substantial than broad comedy fizzles--darryl's romance with janice ( tamara taylor ) , a young woman who yearns for a man who is true to himself , does not generate sparks of any kind . 
once his wb television sitcom the wayans bros . comes to an end , the genuinely funny marlon wayans has a promising big-screen future ahead of him . 
but if he continues to associate himself with projects as flat as senseless , his film career could go the way of his once-promising older brother , damon , who is now set to make his comeback--on television . 
a slight romantic comedy with a feminist bent , but one with no edge to it . 
it turns out to be a conventional film filled with the usual clich ? s and stock characters of this genre . 
though it's a well-written and well-acted fluff piece , it still does not have too much to say that is surprising . 
it's made for the gentle art-house set , those who don't want something too disturbing to think about . 
it's about a critically successful writer husband , alec ( pryce ) , who is so self-absorbed that he's threatened by his department store floor-walking model wife , kate ( bouquet ) , who wants to be a writer . 
she meets his crass publisher , vanni corso ( walken ) , another self-absorbed man , and a predictable relationship occurs . 
the fireworks occur because she outgrows her husband's first impressions of her as someone who was impressed with his genius and worships at his feet . 
she now wants her own identity and her independence . 
the film looked like the usual sitcom stuff , and is plagued with the cheap set design features reserved for a tv movie . 
the film sagged in the middle of the story from the weight of its tedium , and eventually landed on its rear end with its unspectacular climax . 
it's set in london , and it opens as model kate rebuffs sexual advances by a wealthy american shopper , vanni . 
she later meets him as her hubby's new upstart publisher who seeks to have her intellectual author husband in his stable in order to give him credibility as a publisher of quality , and he quickly wins favor with her by publishing her vanity novel . 
alec who is an obnoxious grouse , someone whom it seems it would be impossible to live with , tries to do everything to stop his wife from having her book published--which only pushes her into the grasping arms of vanni . 
the publisher is proud that he's a mamma's boy who never married and is a self-made man who has earned millions . 
he has recently acquired a failing old london publishing house and plans to revitalize it , as he proudly tells kate : " if my father could sell pizzas in harlem , i could sell culture in europe . " 
the only thing that couldn't be sold , is this stiff story and tired plot line . 
the mystery to me , is how the lovely kate could like either man unless she was an insensitive dummy . 
she soon divorces the beleaguered alec and marries the soon-to-become-beleaguered vanni . 
when she writes a second novel , he rebuffs her the same way her first hubby did . 
it ends with the same results that happened to hubby number one , as its story of ambition and lust winds down in a whimper . 
a business affair was loosely based on the real-life literary and romantic travails of married authors barbara skelton and cyril connolly , in their celebrated 1950s love triangle . 
if you're the kind of person who goes to see movies just because you long for some of that overpriced theatre popcorn ( butter optional ) , then this is the movie for you ! 
indeed , this has got to be either one of the most unimaginative rip-offs of other recent action movies , or an incredibly unfunny spoof of them . 
it's difficult to fathom such insipidness unless you actually watch this film . 
but at least we're warned very quickly that we may regret our ticket purchase , giving us an opportunity to sneak on out and into the adjacent show . 
what are the four ingredients of a really bad action movie ? 
first , the movie gives us an introductory premise . 
huge caverns exist deep beneath the ocean floor , and in this area , many ships have disappeared . 
oooh . . . scary ! 
secondly , a cheesy soundtrack tries to connote a tone of mystery , but only succeeds in drowning our ears with an abrasive musical score . 
third , the main character is a mercenary that delivers goods without asking about the contents of his cargo ( treat williams ) . 
he operates a sophisticated military-style pt boat and every word that comes out of his mouth is awash in comical flippancy . 
finally , in the cargo hold , we see those that hired him . 
they are also mercenaries that have tough-looking haircuts , talk with accents , and try to show how macho they are . 
during their trip across the stormy sea , their boat suffers an incident and requires repairs . 
spotting a cruise ship in the distance , they make their way to the ocean liner and devise a plan to raid the machine shop , take the parts that they need , and then continue on their merry way . 
little do they know that this cruise ship has become infested by some kind of ocean monster . 
yet , they board the ship armed to the hilt with grenades and machine guns that can kill dozens in a matter of seconds . 
this is nothing more than a by-the-book action film . 
their realization of the situation that they're in doesn't happen until they are in the bowels of the boat . 
those who are dumb enough to stray off on their own will ultimately get killed . 
the corridors on the ship are narrow , misty , and provide the kind of atmosphere that all scare-fests must have . 
yet , despite the predictable nature of this film , there are some scary " boo " moments . 
but most of it is just outright silly . 
and this film is unusually gory too . 
monsters basically suck off the flesh and spit out skeletal remains . 
there is one particularly neat scene where a monster has been cut apart and reveals a victim that is still alive . 
he screams horribly as the monster's digestive juices continue to slowly eat him away . 
additionally , it borrows heavily from speed2 , alien and a bunch of other recent films . 
the mercenaries even run into a lone , surviving passenger ( femke jannsen ) who looks amazingly like sandra bullock . 
to be honest , when i left the theatre , i just had to laugh at how witless the film was . 
it's moronic fun at best . 
so , if you're hankering for a large bucket of popcorn served with a side of silliness , then this might just hit the spot . 
synopsis : when a meteorite crashlands in the arizona desert , community college professors ira kane ( duchovny ) and harry block ( jones ) are first on the scene . 
they discover that an alien lifeform has arisen from the rock and is evolving at an amazing rate . 
soon the army , advised by dr allison reed ( moore ) , moves in and forces kane and block out . 
but when the aliens begin to menace society , it may take the scientists' combined efforts to stop them before they terminate the evolution of another lifeform : humanity . 
review : " evolution " certainly has the ingredients for a decent comedy . 
it's directed by reitman , clearly trying to parlay his " ghostbusters " success into a twenty-first-century counterpart . 
it stars duchovny , and although one might question his judgment in lampooning his " x-files " character so soon after leaving the tv series , it should certainly provide him with plenty of ammunition . 
and then there's moore , who may not have much prior experience in comedy , but who has certainly proven her ability as an actress . 
a shame , then , that it all deteriorates into such a hopelessly unfunny morass . 
 " evolution " is a movie more concerned with its special effects ( which are quite good ) than anything resembling a consistently funny script . 
it has its moments ( a scene in which jones' body is invaded by an alien is particularly entertaining ) , but there are embarrassingly long stretches that are utterly devoid of humour . 
moore is totally wasted , her clumsy shtick getting very old , very fast . 
duchovny has stunningly little in the way of material to work with . 
and the story is so formulaic , it could have been written by monkeys . 
part of what made " ghostbusters " so wonderful was a combination of a great script and characters the audience could root for . 
 " evolution " is so mind-numbingly tedious that it's difficult not to start cheering for the aliens . 
deceiver is a plot twist in search of a movie . 
this overly constructed film succeeds in having many surprises , and , being true to its title , being deceptive . 
but there is little in the film that is worthy of deceit . 
braxton ( chris penn ) and kennesaw ( michael rooker ) are two cops investigating the brutal murder of a prostitute ( renee zellweger ) . 
their lone suspect is wayland ( tim roth ) , a wealthy young man whose phone number was found in the hooker's pocket . 
however , a routine lie detector test turns against the investigators , as the crafty wayland somehow turns the tables . 
braxton and kennesaw are forced to confront their own troubled lives . 
braxton is a gambling addict in deep to mook ( ellen burstyn ) , a local bookie . 
kennesaw is bitter about his marriage to a socialite ( rosanna arquette ) , believing his wife to be unfaithful . 
the plot is twisty and complex , with lots of lengthy flashbacks , and plenty of surprises . 
however , there are times when it is needlessly complex , and at least one instance the storytelling turns so muddled that the answers to important plot points actually get lost . 
take a look at l . a . confidential , or the film's more likely inspiration , the usual suspects for how a complex plot can properly be handled . 
the dialogue in deceiver is as overcrafted as the plot . 
for example , the film tells a few substories ( such as the tale of a woeful absinthe bender , or an alternative telling of how van gogh lost his ear ) , but they are so flat and so plastic that they come off as prefabricated and unbelievable . 
there's never the sense that these are real characters engaging in conversation . 
they appear to be nothing more than words on a screenplay . 
the characters , themselves , are rather pathetic and despicable . 
not one of them is an ounce sympathetic , and as a result , the labyrinthine plot is all for naught . 
what does it matter who is guilty of what and why ? 
writer-directors josh and jonas pate seem to desire to emulate the coen brothers' masterwork blood simple , or the wachowski brothers' less worthy bound . 
but , while they have got the plot twists down cold , they need to work on characterization and dialogue . 
this is the kind of movie that makes one appreciate disney's live- action george of the jungle . 
tarzan and the lost city , the latest attempt to bring edgar rice burrough's legendary hero to the big screen , is one of the most inept and ill-timed of any tarzan adventure so far . 
badly conceived and poorly executed , tarzan and the lost city appears headed for a quick trip to video store shelves . 
i have no idea why the producers chose now to bring back tarzan ; it's not as if there are legions of new fans clamoring for his next movie . 
furthermore , it's even more curious that this film is rated pg , which , by definition , rules out any sex or explicit violence . 
and , while i'm not advocating the excesses embraced by the 1981 bo derek version of the story , tarzan deserves a slightly more adult approach than the one used in the embarrassing production . 
of course , no tweaking of the content to change the rating could have saved tarzan and the lost city , since the film's troubles originated with the script and were propagated all the way down the line . 
imagine george of the jungle stripped of all ( intentional ) humor , and you have a fair idea of what this tarzan is like . 
with its uninspired action and tepid adventure sequences , the film barely registers a pulse . 
anyone in search of a relatively entertaining , family jungle adventure should check out the 1994 version of the jungle book , which uses the same basic elements to much better effect . 
the only worthwhile element of tarzan and the lost city is the pretty scenery ( which , unfortunately , includes the two lead actors ) . 
the film doesn't attempt to re-tell the origin story ? the thinking is that it has been done often enough . 
instead , tarzan and the lost city introduces us to lord graystoke a . k . a . john clayton a . k . a . tarzan the ape man ( casper van dien ) several days before his marriage to lady jane porter ( jane march ) . 
he is living happily in england , enjoying the benefits of being a land-owning noble . 
meanwhile , in central africa , the dastardly nigel ravens ( steven waddington ) , a self-proclaimed scholar and explorer , believes he has found the way to the lost city of opar , which he calls the cradle of civilization . 
on the way there , he and his band of mercenaries do all sorts of nasty things , like burning native villages , to earn the wrath of the locals . 
one shaman , determined to stop ravens from unearthing opal , sends a mystical message to tarzan for help . 
with lady jane following close behind , he returns to the jungle where he was born . 
its patently obvious that casper van dien ( one of the pretty-boy heroes of starship troopers ) was not hired on the basis of his acting ability . 
with his plastic facial expressions , monotone voice , and complete inability to make convincing animal noises , his range rivals that of steven seagal . 
his pecs , however , are impressive , and director carl schenkel makes sure that he is given every opportunity to show them off . 
jane march , on the other hand , has to keep her shirt on , which may be a first for her . 
some six years ago , march give a solid performance in jean jacques annaud's steamy the lover . 
since then , she made the career-killing decision of appearing opposite bruce willis in the color of night , which exploited her every acting defiency . 
tarzan continues this trend . 
march may be attractive , but , at least judging by this performance , she can't act . 
meanwhile , steven waddington has serious trouble summoning up the menace necessary to be a really detestable bad guy . 
instead , he turns out to be little more than a nuisance . 
the story line is pure formula , which has largely been true throughout the years for almost all of the tarzan movies . 
the problem is that this one seems so childish and lifeless . 
the romantic elements are all contrived ? in fact , lady jane's presence is necessary only so she can be captured and subsequently rescued by her buff fiance . 
the special effects are truly bottom-of-the-barrel ( including some laughably bad men in ape costumes ? apparently , animatronics were too expensive for this production ) . 
and , of course , as with all jungle movies , there are the obligatory cute animals . 
over the years , the legend of tarzan has been one of the most popular sources for film series material . 
the most famous ape man was johnny weismuller , but no less than two dozen other actors have essayed the part ( including gordon scott , who is widely believed to be the best actor to tackle the role ) . 
weismuller made 12 tarzan features ; van dien will probably fall 11 short of that number . 
and , having seen tarzan and the lost city , i would argue that the movie-going public would have been well served if he had missed by 12 . 
 " desperate measures " is a generic title for a film that's beyond generic . 
it's also a depressing waste of talent , with the solid team of michael keaton and andy garcia unthankfully thrown thankless lead roles , not to mention once-cool director barbet schroeder sadly continuing his string of not-cool flicks -- this thriller is more " before and after " than " reversal of fortune . " 
the movie is a big disappointment , and yet it's somewhat easy to see what motivated such big names to attach themselves to it -- the premise is both promising and intriguing . 
too bad the execution's all wrong , though , because the set-up of " desperate measures " boasts some rather enticing elements that deserve to be put to far better use . 
san francisco cop frank connor ( garcia ) is a single parent with a troubling dilemma -- his son matt ( joseph cross ) is stricken with cancer which only a bone marrow transplant can push into remission . 
even worse , the only compatible donor is violent sociopath peter mccabe ( michael keaton ) , currently serving a life sentence for multiple murders and other various crimes against society . 
connor tries his best to convince mccabe to go along with the surgery ; he's at first reluctant , but reconsiders after he realizes he can plan his escape at the hospital . 
when he does make a run for it , connor offers close pursuit , but for different reasons than his superiors ( including the crusty brian cox ) -- they want to take mccabe down , while connor needs to keep him alive , or all hope is lost for his little boy . 
one misstep " desperate measures " makes is in its underdevelopment of matt's illness . 
what's needed are more details as to exactly why mccabe is the only bone marrow match that works ; there would seem to be other possible contenders somewhere in the country , and thus many of the ways that connor endangers the lives of himself and those around him by attempting to keep mccabe alive are just a little too hard to swallow . 
take , for example , a scene where mccabe is trying to make a getaway by climbing over an elevated passage tunnel connecting two sections of the hospital . 
the police have their spotlight and guns aimed right on him , and what does connor do ? 
he shoots the spotlight out so that mccabe can continue his flight . 
connor knows very well what dangerous deeds this guy is capable of , and yet never seems to think that mccabe will eventually get to and try to harm his son . 
whatever . 
to be fair , though , the lack of story background is the least of the movie's problems . 
first and foremost is how cheaply " desperate measures " trades the potential of it's opening scenes for the routine action ballistics of its final hour . 
once mccabe escapes , the film becomes the fugitive in reverse and with no thrills . 
there are countless scenes where the good guys catch up to keaton only to have him grab a hostage and get away . 
also , the movie is so intent on giving you a hoot-inducing , lip-smacking villain ( the ads have compared peter mccabe to hannibal lechter , natch ) that it completely casts garcia's frank connor by the dullsville wayside ; " desperate measures " appears to like its antagonist so much more than its protagonist , and the movie's head-scratcher of a send-off confirms this . 
there is some good to be found amongst this mess , particularly in the acting department . 
cast against type , michael keaton's understated menace is highly effective . 
although he's not given much believable to work with , andy garcia plays off a taut emotional chord . 
joseph cross , as garicia's ailing son , is surprisingly unsentimental , and marcia gay harden lends solid support as a doctor who becomes a major player in the unfolding chaos . 
this cast does its best to camouflage the sorry plot as it chugs towards an inevitably happy ending , but most is lost . 
it goes without saying that " desperate measures " needs an operation of its very own . 
robin williams is a comedic genus . 
that is , he is one when he's in a film that allows him space to move . 
 " flubber " straps him in a straitjacket , covers him with duct tape , stuffs him in a coat closet and piles furniture against the door to make sure that he doesn't get out . 
in a re-make of its own 1961 " absent minded professor " , disney offers us proof that more is definitely less . 
recycling old films ( " that darned cat " , " 101 dalmatians " ) dressed up as new is the newest money machine from the home of the mouse that roared . 
professor phillip brainard ( williams ) is a terminally forgetful scientist teaching at a small college . 
his fiancee , sara jean reynolds ( marcia gay harden ) , president of the college is none too happy with him because he's left her waiting at the altar due to his lack of short-term -- and long-term -- memory . 
she's giving him one more chance . 
he blows that chance when he invents " flubber " ( flying rubber ) and is so excited by his discovery that sara jean is once again awaiting him in her white dress . 
his tardiness is helped along by his jealous flying robotic assistant who wants him all to herself . 
it's not all bad news . 
flubber is a green jello that can magnify and reflect energy that is applied to it . 
brainard realizes the commercial potential within the goo can save the school from bankruptcy and being taken over by the town's evil industrialist charles hoenicker ( raymond barry ) . 
while he's busy with his new breakthrough , the slighted sweetheart is being wooed by his sleazy rival wilson croft ( christopher mcdonald ) . 
there's a flying car , flubber-enhanced basketball game and an assortment of broken lab equipment : none of which are the least bit interesting or funny . 
at one point , my son looked around the audience and asked " why are these people laughing ? " 
although williams turns in one of his least inspired roles , he is easily the most lively of the actors . 
everyone else comes across as half-asleep . 
the re-make is successful in that respect . 
it feels like a bad disney movie from the sixties . 
i remember the original as being charming , but my guess is that the memory from almost four decades ago has been artificially enhanced by the years . 
there have been some updates . 
fred macmurray's flying model t has been replaced by a t-bird . 
his faithful dog charlie is now " weebo " , the hovering robot . 
the biggest change is that , with sophisticated computer animation , we now can have films show off special effects without being at all entertaining . 
flubber is anthropomorphized into a being supposedly with personality . 
the gloop has little arms and legs and splits into tiny little gloopettes for a big dance number . 
this has nothing to do with the story . 
the only possible reason is to create merchandising opportunities so that kids can badger their parents into taking them to mcdonalds for the toys . 
not that contributing little to the plot is a big problem . 
there are very few aspects of the film that move the story and those that do don't make sense . 
the discovery of flubber is going to save the college because brainard can sell his flying car to ford . 
anyone with half a brain would be able to see that his intelligent flying automaton is worth billions . 
it's unbelievable that his lover ( well , probably not a lover -- after all this is disney ) starts dating croft after the aborted wedding . 
there's not one appealing component of this man . 
after the professor discovers that smearing a golf ball with the gunk causes it to bounce uncontrollably around his lab wreaking havoc , i cringed as he picked up a bowling ball . 
this guy is beyond forgetful , venturing into the certifiable . 
co-writer john hughes used to direct light-weight but thoughtful teen films . 
the care behind " pretty in pink " and " the breakfast club " all went out the window after his " home alone " franchise heated up the box offices . 
looking much like " home alone 3 1/2 " , " flubber " even features a couple of vapid goons who get banged around and a cute little boy who screams a lot . 
in some ways , it's difficult to judge this film . 
i have a suspicion that i'm not it's target audience . 
after all , i measure my age in two digits . 
ever watch a very young child try and tell a joke that is beyond his , or her , sophistication ? 
it's full of stops and starts and usually , the punch line is ruined . 
i felt the same way watching drowning mona . 
skip a stone across water and you approximate the depth of this attempt at an ensemble comedy . 
there are some slightly successful attempts at humor , but they only serve as window dressing . 
there is a running gag about the town , verplanck , n . y . , being a test town for the then new yugo . 
everyone drives a yugo , differentiating their cars with personalized license plates . 
even the police chief drives one . 
there is a certain sublimeness to the image of a lights and siren decked out yugo skittering its way through the town streets . 
there also is a running gag about one of the characters , jeff , missing a hand and how it occurred . 
it pokes gentle fun at the notion of urban legends . 
it turns out the truth is more horrifying than any legend . 
there are some sight gags that pop up as well , such as mona's tombstone , which reads " demoted " , instead of devoted . 
still , the core of the story maintains the flatness of a still pond . 
the lynchpin of the film falls on the redundant and sporadic scenes involving mona ( midler ) . 
each scene with her is the same : scream at someone , hit someone , then scream some more . 
there's no uniqueness or modulation to her or explanation for her meanness . 
anyone off the street could have played the role , such as it is . 
the other characters are walking cardboard cutouts . 
each one is defined by one trait and no further attempt is made at deeper characterization . 
there is a burly , female car mechanic , so of course , there is a forced lesbianism gag . 
mona's son , jeff ( marcus thomas ) is a simpleton , hence you can predict his dialogue before it even plods its way from his mouth . 
chief of police rash ( devito ) likes broadway musicals and loves his daughter . 
there's nothing more to him . 
elle , the chief's daughter ( campbell ) , is bland personified , a dutiful girl with no higher aspiration than to have a child and be married . 
mona's husband phil ( fichtner ) jeckle and hydes from shirking coward to reptilian letch . 
bob ( affleck ) , elle's betrothed , and business partner to jeff , is a mumbling , obvious dullard . 
there is no contrast to any of the characters . 
by having at least one character with some wit , or wits , to serve as counterpoint to the others , perhaps steinfeld's attempt at satirizing a small town infested with ambitionless people might have come off better . 
ostensibly a murder mystery , drowning mona gives you almost all the clues immediately , then lets you sit back and feel superior as you watch the cast of paper people fumble their way to finding the killer , who could be anyone due to mona's loving manner with everyone on town . 
even that aspect of the film fails , throwing in a convenient , ridiculous and unsatisfying wrap to things . 
it's been a while since i walked away from a movie theater in an angry mood . 
what makes it all the more remarkable is that i rarely remember a comedy making me so angry for wasting my time at it's ineptitude . 
what are we going to do with jim carrey ? 
viewers of television's " in living color " know this one-man cartoon from such characters as fire marshall bill . 
viewers also know that " in living color " is a skit-show and that a little of jim carrey goes a long way . 
unfortunately , this fact was forgotten by the makers of the carrey comedy ace ventura : pet detective . 
three writers , including carrey , worked on the slapstick story , which sends a self-styled " pet detective " on the trail of a stolen dolphin . 
the missing mammal belongs to the miami dolphins , who need their mascot for the upcoming superbowl . 
for plot porpoises , this story works as well as any three stooges short . 
carrey gets to do his " official " schtick as he snoops around greater miami . 
he leers and sneers , craning his neck to funny effect . 
he even does his captain kirk impersonation . 
again . 
all of this is pretty harmless stuff up until the point that you realize that the writers have absolutely no intention of focusing on anyone * other * than carrey . 
 ( suggested alternate title--jim carrey : will do anything for a laugh . ) 
export it to france and you may have a hit . 
as it stands , ace ventura isn't even good kid's stuff . 
the profanity count , alone , is too high . 
which is ironic , since children are , probably , carrey's best audience . 
the film doesn't even have the goofball charm of chris elliott's recent no-brainer cabin boy . 
sure , carrey has his moments . 
but what can you say about a film whose high-points include watching carrey slink around to the theme from " mission impossible ? " 
ace ventura has one glaring incongruity . 
amid the butt-jokes and double-takes , the script takes great pains to set-up an elaborate and rather funny " crying game " gag . 
and , for * this * intended audience , that takes ( ahem ) cojones . 
there are some pretty impressive stars in lost in space - it's just that none of them happen to be actors . 
the stars i'm referring to are the computer generated ones that make up the movie's " outer space " ; the stars that the less impressive actors hurtle thru as they try to find their way home . 
yes , in terms of acting , the star power is . 
 . 
 . 
well , more like a falling star . 
kinda pretty , short-lived , and pretty much dead . 
lost in space , as if you really didn't know , is based on the 60's sci-fi television series of the same name . 
it's the year 2058 , and earth's precious resources are quickly being usurped by the needs of its massive population . 
john robinson ( william hurt ) is the scientist leading a mission program to colonize a foreign planet . 
earth's entire existance is contingent upon a successful mission , but nobody , whether it be john's family or hired battle pilot don west ( matt leblanc ) , seems too enthusiastic about leaving their home planet for several years . 
john's family consists of his wife maureen ( mimi rogers ) , his atypical teenage daughter penny ( lacey chabert ) , his ingenious son will ( jack johnson ) , and his beautiful scientist daughter judy ( heather graham ) . 
despite everyone's reluctance , the jupiter 2 spacecraft abandons planet earth and makes its way into the vast eternity of space . 
unknown to anyone but the audience , there is an evil doctor stowaway determined to sabotage the entire mission . 
dr . smith ( gary oldman ) has been hired by a group of rebel conspirators to turn the expedition sour , and dr . smith has re-programmed a talking robot to " destroy robinson family " ! 
when everything that could go wrong does go wrong for both sides , the spaceship is warped to an unknown destination , and now the premise of being lost in space is complete . 
as for the audience , you will likely be lost in boredom by this point , wondering if the plot , like the jupiter 2 , will ever get off the ground . 
it's hard to tell who deserves the most blame - the incredibly bland and corny characters or the horrifically lame script ? 
chabert is basically the only one to overdo it , sounding like a whiny munchkin on helium . 
if you , like me , were convinced by commercials that her voice was altered for some sort of plot twist where her body would be taken over by aliens , you're wrong ! 
that's just her normal voice ! 
in yet another example of a " friend " faltering on the big screen , leblanc is so incredibly dull and yet so obviously trying so hard to be so incredibly charming ( make sense ? ) , it makes you want to shove his ass out the escape pod corridor without an escape pod . 
graham is a babe - thank goodness there was something for me to think about during this film . 
hurt , the black hole of excitement , sucks up any energy that might have been left . 
if hurt were available in tablet form , he would be a prescription strength sleeping pill . 
johnson isn't dull , he's just lame as the young know it all who winds up saving everybody's ass all the time . 
want an example of how cool this kid can be ? 
how about when he convinces the robot to think with its heart and reconsider killing the family ? 
hey , don't laugh - the thing actually listened to the mr . rogers-would-be-proud sentiment . 
but alas , if you thought a character couldn't be much worse , there was rogers as the epitome of generic ( or , mother as she was known ) . 
why hire an actress ? 
they could've had a white cardboard cutout with the word mom printed on it . 
now that would've had some pizzazz ! 
lost in space luckily doesn't suffer in every single category that it could have . 
the special effects are crisp , clear , and at least mildly captivating , unlike any of the presences onscreen save it be oldman , who plays his evil character with a great deal of fun and finesse . 
unfortunately , oldman is locked away for most of the film , giving us nothing but ample mocking opportunities to enjoy . 
while the special effects are pleasing to the eye , they are nothing you couldn't find in most modern sci-fi films . 
contact , for example , far exceeds this film in terms of imagery and imagination . 
lost in space just has too many shortcomings to ever be considered a work of cinematic art , with numerous contradictions ( the time travel aspect was horribly flawed ! ) , wooden and corny acting , worse dialogue , and an ending so disappointing , you'd be happier to have seen the entire robinson family get blown to smithereens . 
then again , with an ending like this film has , it's obvious a sequel is already being considered . 
what an awful note to end on , knowing there could be more of this in a year or two . 
the attempt to be family oriented is commendable , but lost in space is lost with the illusion that special effects and the nostalgia of a classic tv series being revisited is enough to satisfy all age groups . 
well , danger potential movie goers ! 
danger ! 
this movie crash lands without ever breaking thru the atmosphere of mediocrity . 
so , it's thirty years later , and oscar and felix are together again . 
that might have been an exciting notion if it wasn't for the fact that the " odd couple " of jack lemmon and walter matthau have been reunited in several recent movies : 1993's " grumpy old men , " 1995's " grumpier old men , " and 1997's " out to sea " ( i . e . 
 " grumpiest old men " ) . 
so , " the odd couple ii " ( i . e . 
 " the grumpiest old men of all , really " ) seems just another entry in a tired series . 
the plot is even similar to that of " grumpy old men " in that lemmon and matthau's mismatched characters are brought together by a romance between their children . 
oscar's son ( jonathan silverman ) and felix's daughter ( lisa waltz ) are getting married , and former roommates felix ungar ( lemmon ) and oscar madison ( matthau ) meet at the airport and decide to share a car . 
 . 
 . 
then hilarity ensues . 
well , a few chuckles ensue anyway . 
neil simon , the award-winning playwright who created oscar and felix , provides the screenplay , which is a shock , because the script is a piece of talentless hackwork from beginning to end . 
unlike the original play/movie , " odd couple ii " doesn't find its humor in the personality conflict of its characters . 
instead , it depends upon a series of humorous situations : oscar and felix lose the car over a cliff , are caught smuggling mexicans over the border , take up with two women on the run from their violent husbands ( the women are played by christine baranski of " cybill " and jean smart of " designing women " ) , and hitch a ride with a man who dies in the desert . 
the original 1968 movie " the odd couple " remains a classic comedy . 
it introduced the motif of roommate-as-spouse that has provided gags for movies and sitcoms ever since . 
it was the second outing for the lemmon/matthau team ( which debuted in 1966's " the fortune cookie " ) , and they made a couple more worthwhile comedies , " the front page " ( 1974 ) and " buddy buddy " ( 1981 ) , before going their separate ways . 
the reunion of lemmon and matthau in " grumpy old men " six years ago was delightful , and its sequel seemed appropriate because it tied up some loose ends from the first movie . 
but " out to sea " and " the odd couple ii " are just beating a grumpy old horse . 
 ( you can add lemmon's " my fellow americans , " i . e . 
 " grumpy old presidents , " to that list , too . ) 
let's hope that hollywood offers these two actors something fresh to do . 
let's hope also that we see neil simon's name on movies that do it justice ( this is his first since 1993's " lost in yonkers " ) . 
except for a few bright moments of good verbal comedy , that old feeling is embarrassing to sit through . 
bette midler and dennis farina play lilly and dan , actress and author , once married , now violently divorced , and back together one last time for their daughter molly's ( paula marshall ) wedding . 
lilly and dan hate each other passionately -- so passionately that they have sex at the wedding and fall in love again . 
each ditches his or her current spouse of 14 years and runs off with the other . 
molly , married now only 24 hours , runs off in search of her irresponsible parents while her husband keith ( jamie denton ) tries to console the abandoned spouses . 
in molly's search for her parents , she somehow falls in love with lilly's paparazzo joey ( danny nucci ) . 
meanwhile , the newlywed keith ends up consoling dan's wife rowena ( gail o'grady ) in bed . 
the audience i saw this with apparently thought that all the adultery was hilarious . 
i'm no dan quayle , but i thought it was a bit creepy . 
the message seemed to be " ignore your responsibilities unrepentantly and have fun fucking who you wish . " 
 " family values " aside , there's something cruel about all this . 
perhaps this movie would have played well as a black comedy , but the movie is a romantic comedy . 
we are supposed to be rooting for these creeps . 
reiner and screenwriter leslie dixon tried to make it easier on us by making the victims unlikeable . 
lilly's husband is a new-age flake who rambles about " emotional valet parking , " so we can write him off as irrelevant . 
dan's wife is vain , manipulative , and jealous so we can write her off as a bitch . 
molly's husband is a career-conscious , self-centered republican politician who thinks she's too fat ( and just for good measure , he also fucked dan's wife ) , so we can write him off as a prick . 
everyone else falls in love . 
but still , that somehow doesn't justify the actions of the movie's main characters . 
 " he's a prick " or " she's a bitch " is no defense . 
the movie is somewhat redeemed by some funny dialog -- often during heated arguments -- and by above-average performances by midler and farina ( breaking out of his character-actor mold ) . 
other than that , it's a standard romantic comedy with a very substandard gimmick . 
maybe this mission should have been scrubbed 
mission to mars 
a film review by michael redman copyright 2000 by michael redman 
there's a world of difference between artists and technicians . 
the artist has a vision to create something new . 
he may not do it well , it might be sloppy , but it's something you've never seen before . 
a good technician can make it look good , but without direction from his own inner artist or someone else , it's going to be just a xerox . 
obviously successful films need both skills . 
brian de palma is a masterful technician . 
he's spent his career copying others , most notably hitchcock . 
he usually knows exactly what to do to make a scene work , but only because he has learned it by rote . 
aside from rare flashes of originality , his films are often soul-dead . 
in de palma's latest , he turns his attention to stanley kubrick . 
to tell the truth , i enjoyed portions of this movie , but i liked it a lot better over 30 years ago when it was called " 2001 " . 
i enjoyed it even more when it was titled " close encounters " . 
nasa has set its sights for mars . 
when the first crew meets with disaster , a rescue mission is sent to the red planet . 
they don't do so well either , but eventually meet up the lone surviving astronaut-gone-rasta and solve the mysteries of the universe . 
and it's all so boring . 
there are so many scenes that just don't work , it's difficult to begin . 
when the first crew is a few feet away from a raging massive upside-down martian tornado ( which looks remarkably like a sandworm from " dune " ) destroying everything in its path , they just hang out watching . 
error . 
the most interesting character ( and that's not saying much ) is killed off . 
error . 
the alien is laughable . 
error . 
the rest of the characters are the dullest people imaginable . 
error . 
there's some nice eyecandy . 
the face on mars , which turns out to be a giant metal thai buddha head , looks cool . 
a three-dimensional holographic planetarium is more fun to watch than anything at disney world . 
maneuvering in space suits outside the ship seems realistic . 
but there's so much more that feels as if we've been there before . 
from " 2001 " , there's the rotating space station , the blinding white room . 
>from " close encounters " , they solve a sound puzzle and play it to the aliens . 
the list goes on . 
the actors are mostly mobile wooden statues . 
even gary sinise and tim robbins can't muster enough emotion to convince us they are breathing . 
no one seems to care about anything that happens . 
you won't either . 
the absolutely worst sin is the blatant product placement as dr . pepper , with a 20 foot tall logo , saves the day . 
they should save the commercials for those insipid bits before the film . 
mulholland drive did very well at the cannes film festival . 
as you can see from the rating it did not do very well from me at the toronto international film festival . 
it may not be clear to the viewer why i am so negative on this film for most of the running time . 
in fact it is an interesting mystery story told on the backdrop of the hollywood film industry . 
toward the end of the film i think everything that has been built falls apart . 
the film was to be a pilot for a tv series but writer and director david lynch did not sell his tv pilot and i think he decided that he wanted to do something else with it . 
something else is what he did . 
the film opens with a woman ( played by laura harring ) about to be killed in a car when a car crash saves her life . 
she crawls away from the accident with a concussion and finds herself a bungalow with an unlocked door to sleep . 
meanwhile young vivacious betty ( naomi watts ) arrives in hollywood from canada . 
she wants to build a career as an actress . 
betty is a little surprised to find a woman sleeping in the borrowed bungalow . 
she does not know who the woman is . 
she is even more surprised when the woman awakes and does not herself know who she is . 
they fix on a name rita for her , but are not sure if this right or not . 
meanwhile local director adam kesher ( justin theroux ) has problems of his own . 
he is trying to cast one actress for his new film and is getting pressure from the producers and from crime figures to cast someone else , cammie rhodes ( melissa george ) . 
these two threads are joined by a third one in which there is a strange and comic murder that goes terribly wrong . 
there is also a strange character called the cowboy ( monty montgomery ) adding to the confusion . 
in what was probably intended for the television pilot the film opens with a great vibrancy showing dancing 60s style under the credits . 
a lot of mulholland drive starts out fun . 
lynch wants you to know he could make an enjoyable stylish film . 
he just chooses not to . 
as with any david lynch film there is strange material added for little reason . 
there are no earthworms , but there are some decidedly strange david lynch touches . 
the film is a little long for the subject matter . 
toward the end it gets into some heavier violence and sex scenes , clearly not intended for the tv pilot . 
unfortunately some of the most important comments to make about this film would be spoilers . 
i will not mention them in the main body of the review but i give mulholland drive a 4 on the 0 to 10 scale and a low 0 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
mulholland drive spoiler warning . 
i have rated this film fairly low . 
you should read this only after seeing the film or deciding that you will not see the film . 
david lynch is in large part a dark satirist . 
most of his work is done in familiar genres but in some way shows their underside . 
in mulholland drive i think he is having a laugh at the expense of the crime film genre . 
what he does with this film is ( are you sure you want to read this ? ) 
playing off the audience expectations that there will be a simple explanation for what is going on . 
the first 80% of the film he tells a simple multi-thread crime story with clues sprinkled throughout . 
then suddenly at the end he turns the story on its ear with a large number of clues that appear that they should add up to something . 
the audience expectation is that they will add up . 
but he has given clues that are self-contradictory . 
lynch wants the audience to argue about what they have seen afterward and come up with theories . 
in fact , the pointers are noticeably contradictory and until i hear a better explanation , i think lynch is merely playing a joke . 
there is a visual curiosity that was popular in the sixties . 
mad magazine called it a poiuyt . 
other sources called it a tri- pronged u-bar . 
look at small portions of it and makes sense . 
look at the whole figure and it does not . 
this film is , in my estimation , the cinematic equivalent of a tri-pronged u-bar . 
ingredients : possessed plastic dolls in love , plastic dolls having sex 
starring : jennifer tilly , voice of brad dourif , katherine heigl , nick stabile , john ritter 
synopsis : this is the fourth film in the chucky series , which debuted in the late 1980s . 
basically , chucky is a plastic doll that can walk and talk because it is possessed by the spirit of a slain murderer . 
in bride of chucky , chucky's longtime girlfriend tiffany ( jennifer tilly ) dies and her spirit inhabits a female plastic doll through voodoo . 
dolls tiffany and chucky get married and embark on a quest to reach a cemetery in new jersey , where a mystical gem might enable them to be humans . 
the dolls stow away in the back of a vehicle driven by a newly eloped couple , so in the side plot , the couple suspects each other of being a murderer . 
opinion : bride of chucky is an attempt at horror with humor , but doesn't succeed . 
somehow , chucky moaning about mid life crisis , and how he should have gotten married does not make for a very scary chucky . 
and tiffany harping about mid life crisis , and how she should have gotten married does not make for a very scary tiffany . 
the suspenseless bride of chucky relies mostly on jennifer tilly's cleavage to keep attention during the first half , and on occasional puns to keep attention during the second half . 
the best that can be said about bride of chucky is that it is sarcastic . 
watching the movie , i vowed to subtract half a star from the review because the filmmakers included a saccharine syrup , cute 'n cuddly , computer-generated monkey . 
if the monkey died , the movie got an extra half star . 
alas , the monkey showed up at the end , unharmed , to the wet sickly sound of gagging and rolling eyeballs . 
what that means is that lost in space actually deserved 2 stars . 
that's pretty generous , considering the movie's camp lacked any hint of tongue in cheek . 
when will robinson ( jack johnson ) teaches his pet robot about friendship , you are actually supposed to buy it . 
so why such a seemingly high rating ? 
there are a few reasons that made me unable to throw away the experience with the garbage . 
first , we saw the movie on opening night of the first day of operation of a brand new theater . 
the sound and screen kicked ass . 
nobody in the country enjoyed the movie as much as my audience did ( and i don't necessarily mean that in a good way ) . 
also , there were more than zero scenes where i found myself rooting for the robinsons , or getting caught up in the movie's tension . 
i even liked the computer-generated settings . 
i usually prefer to see models or sets , but the cg was more detailed than i've seen in a lot of movies ; it looks like someone spent a little overtime to render some of the futuristic cities . 
also , gary oldman is never a bad actor , even though he is typecast as a villain . 
william hurt isn't too bad either . 
neither actor had a great role , but their performances were watchable . 
and perhaps i shouldn't admit this , but something about the tone and outlook of the movie brought me back to my childhood . 
there is very little swearing or blood ; there is a strong moral message , saccharine though it is ; there is a bit of romance ( whose culmination after 2 hours is a " real " kiss -- no sex ) . 
it felt like one of those disney movies that i so looked forward to when i was six . 
those movies were probably as bad as lost in space , but at the time , they were manna from heaven . 
that type of moviemaking is a lost art . 
now for the bad news . 
worst and most unforgivable was the incredibly bad dialogue . 
it's squeaky-clean , family fun , trying hard to be as hip as pulp fiction . 
 " you better hold on to your joystick , " is one such line . 
and when a robinson is called upon to deliver a line about warp conduit thingamajigs , they inevitably stumble badly enough to embarrass even the lowliest star trek ensign . 
second worst , and closely related , is the screenplay . 
the story's exposition takes place at a press conference , which allows the writers to explain what's happening with the least amount of creativity , effort , or interest . 
once the story gets going , i do concede a momentary burst of interest once in a while , but on the whole , the situations that arise are silly and contrived . 
when gary oldman easily reprograms will's pet robot to kill the robinsons , my friend summed it up perfectly : " he flipped the switch to 'evil . ' " 
then there's the tone of the movie . 
the colorado daily said the film would have been more interesting if the central character was will robinson and not his father john robinson . 
then it could be an adventure movie . 
they're mostly right , except that johnson ( will ) wasn't a good enough actor to carry it off . 
still , that the film has the robinson patriarch as our hero shows a lack of imagination . 
just because a movie is tame enough for kids doesn't mean that we have to bow to a " promise keepers " notion of who's the center of a family . 
many quality family films have been made with a non-traditional family structure ( fly away home comes to mind ) to much better effect . 
and the politics of the time seem a bit conservative and regressive for a futuristic movie . 
in star wars , the rebels were the good guys . 
we were rooting for those who were fighting against the system . 
in lost in space , the rebels are the bad guys , a terrorist force that must be killed , crushed and silenced so that our children may live free . 
that ominous excuse for violence almost makes me sympathize with the terrorists . 
finally , a few specific details deserve criticism . 
the movie tells us that the setting is the year 2056 . 
why ? 
why bother saying what year this is . 
just tell us it's the future . 
i bring it up because the tv series was supposed to take place in 1997 . 
setting a specific date only dates the movie and guarantees that it won't be timeless ( not that this movie was really in the running anyway . ) . 
then there is a scene that shows john robinson checking one of his controls on a chair that rises about fifteen feet on a pole . 
this silly waste of money reminded me of bugs bunny's barber chair , and only shows that the future is a time when spaceship designers haven't learned a thing about ergonomics . 
one vaguely redeeming quality is that the end credits succeed where the rest of the film failed : it made lost in space look cool . 
the strong techno beat sampled the cheesiest dialogue and , out of context , made it sound hip . 
this is overlaid on a cool jumpy credit sequence with interesting distorted clips from the movie . 
but if that's the best part of the movie , i can't in good conscience recommend it . 
still , if you get stuck seeing it , as we did , you might be able to appreciate it if you keep your distance , think of liking bad movies as a child , and bring along your " bad movie bingo " cards . 
i was going to see ram shrasta on the big screen last night , but before that i stopped into my video store to rent some movies . 
luckily , my video guy was in the middle or recording ram shrasta ! 
i knew it was going to be a bad print with only half-faces and poor sound quality , but i couldn't help myself . . . 
i got it . 
well , after watching it ( it indeed was a bad print ) i was glad i didn't dish out $7 to waste three hours of my time sitting in a bad theatre watching a bad movie . 
this movie really sucks . 
it had so many inconsistencies it was driving me crazy ! ! 
for example , how can jackie shroff grow two feet of hair in just three or four days ? 
jackie shroff looked really stupid with his steven seagal ponytail . 
the songs are bad , the acting is bad ( especially deepti bhatnagar's ) , and the direction is the worst of all . 
the comedy scenes with jagdish and johnny lever just made me want to throw up . 
i didn't even finish the movie . . . 
i couldn't take it anymore . 
note : but if anyone out there liked aatish ( by the same director ) , i guess you'd like this movie . 
it's practically the same except that sanjay dutt is replaced with jackie shroff . 
aditya panscholi is the sidekick again . 
 ( i was going to give it a zero , but i personally like jackie shroff , so i loosened up a little . 
he looked fresh , wore good clothes ( as always ) , and his performance , even though it wasn't his best , was the only saving grace of the movie ) 
starship troopers is a bad movie . 
i mean , a really , really , bad movie . 
not only does it cross the line of bad taste when it comes to blood , gore and body parts shown on the screen , it blissfully jumps over that line , apparently unaware that the movie trailers appeal to an audience of five to fifteen year olds ( of which i saw many in the theatre ) . 
looking past the appalling sight of overdone violence , we are left with a movie with a thin plot at best , no strong lead characters , a blatant disregard for physics , and a very obvious naziesque theme . 
that being said , onto the review : the movie starts with a propaganda message from the federation ( who's logo bears a * strong * resemblance to a nazi german eagle ) , urging the populace to go off and fight the bugs , who are attempting to destroy earth . 
the film shows large rallies with young children in attendance , pledging allegiance to the federation ( again , sound familiar ? ) . 
as the movie progresses , we are shown terror tactic training , as a drill sargeant very graphically compound fractures one recruits arm , and throws a knife through another's hand . 
eventually , the recruits embark on a journey to a location two thirds of the way across the milky way galaxy , to fight the bugs on their home planet . 
as our faster than light travelling " heroes " arrive on planet , they drop onto the planet , and burst our of their craft brandishing . . . 
 " what ? " 
you say , " laser beam weapons ? 
sonic weapons ? 
phasers ? 
photon cannons ? " . 
nope , they hop out brandishing good old 1997 machine guns , pump action rifles , and tactical nuclear weapons ! 
i guess a lot of physics money r&d went into travel and not weaponry . 
as the assault begins , our group of troopers are seen walking in a straight line through a box canyon . 
two members of the group notice rocks slipping and falling above them , and one even sees a streak fly by , but disregards it as nothing . 
this of course , leads to more massive carnage , blood shed , and graphic depictions of limbs and heads being ripped and severed from their bodies . 
again , i see that military tactics in the future must have evolved at about the same pace as their weapons ! 
in the end , we see neil patrick " doogie howser " harris burst onto the scene in what could accurately be described as a nazi ss trenchcoat , hat , and gloves . 
he does a vulcan mind meld on the giant slug , and then proclaims that the bugs are scared ! 
this sets the troopers into a frenzy , as they are now one step closer to completing their goal , total genocide of a species ( again , sound familiar ? ? ) . 
i have tried very hard not to step on and spoil the plot with this review , but given it's non-existence , i may have anyway . 
i could go on for pages ripping this movie apart , but don't want to bore you too badly . 
in short , i felt as if i were subjected to a mix between a pro-nazi war film with bugs substituted for allies , a drivers education accident scene film , and a complete blank screen ( the plot , of course ) . 
i wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone , anywhere , under any circumstance . 
copyright ( c ) 1997 tim jandt " > 
capsule : one of the ten worst movies ever made . 
christopher lambert vs . evil ninjas in modern-day japan . . . 
and nobody wins . 
the hunted is such a bad movie , so completely inept and so totally brain-damaged that i could almost feel affection for it . 
i could see myself showing this movie to friends and getting a good jolly guffaw out of it , if it weren't also insanely xenophobic and insulting . 
christopher lambert plays a computer-parts salesman who's on business in japan . 
he meets a slinky young woman ( joan chen ) and has a torrid night of lovemaking with her -- and then manages to witness her death at the hands of an evil ninja clan and their leader ( john lone ) . 
apparently they had some unfinished business that could only be concluded with her getting slaughtered . 
since lambert is a witness , he's of course the next one to die . 
let's stop and think about this for a second . 
if lambert were in real life being chased by fanatical devotees to a ninja secret society , he'd have a lifespan you could only measure with an atomic clock . 
in this movie , the ninja manage to kill just about everyone except him . 
i imagine the japanese gods smiled down on lambert and provided him with a goof field that radiates out about ten feet from his body . 
you know what a goof field is : that invisible zone in which anyone who has intent to do harm to you becomes a klutz no matter what their real dexterity is . 
this is , of course , only the beginning of the movie's problems . 
lambert eventually finds pseudo-safety with a long-haired modern-day samurai ( yoshio harada ) and his partner -- yoko shimada , who you may remember as lady toda buntaro in shogun . 
they are the two best things in the movie ; in every scene they have authority and presence , and they actually look like they belong here , even when dressed in full samurai armor and wielding bows . 
the script doesn't know what the hell to do with them . 
lone , as the bad guy , is zero-dimensional . 
the only bad-guy cliche he has to wallow around in is the one about how the bad guy always has exotic women dripping off of him . 
in the hunted , this is elevated to the level of an insulting stereotype . 
what's funny is that the peripheral characters in the hunted are not sterotypes -- there's a nice little scene with a tokyo cabdriver , and a girl in a pachinko parlor -- but many of the main characters are unsalveageably hateful . 
also , the phenomenal instrumental troupe kodo has assembled a superior soundtrack -- get the cd -- that manages to survive despite the drek it's been designed to accompany . 
there is an extended battle scene in the middle of the movie that is almost reason enough to watch the whole thing -- a gory , excellently staged fight on the bullet train that shows some real imagination for a moment , and then smothers it by trying to clumsily re-couple the whole thing with the movie's relentlessly stupid plot . 
by the time we get to the final showdown , with lambert getting to wield his own sword ( which , judging from the ham-handed editing of one scene , was forged in seven hours or so ) , we no longer care . 
we're not even given any definitive information about whether or not one of the key characters lives or dies ! 
someone once said that the key to good art -- good movies , good books , whatever -- is to start somewhere interesting , end up somewhere interesting , and show respect for the audience all along the way . 
this movie bungles two out of three , badly . 
hello kids . 
today the movie studios want to take over my critical review , and somehow persuade you that _armageddon_ , the summer's biggest blockbuster , is a film for everybody . 
and remember , if a film is for _everybody_ , and if it makes the most money for the summer , it _must_ be good , right ? 
armageddon is a comedy , with a capital " c " . 
it stars bruce willis , who has a hundred one-liners ! 
it has a tiny rock land directly in the middle of a heated argument in new york city ! ! 
and , chuckle , chuckle , one of those new yorkers , _survives_ , with charcoal all over his face ! ! 
snorkle , * sniff * , hiccup . 
and it has steve buscemi as a _genius_ who wants to work for an oil rig ? 
knee-slap ! ! 
isn't this just so , so , funny ! ? 
armageddon also has romance , with a capital " r " . 
it has a tender moment between * forbidden lovers * ben affleck and liv tyler , with , with , animal crackers ! 
and it has will patton as a long lost husband trying to reunite with his separated wife and child , who thinks he's a salesman ! 
gurgle , * sniff * , awwwww . 
and it has steve buscemi spewing more one-liners about minors and strippers . 
umm , moving right along . . . 
armageddon also has lots of action , with a capital " a " . 
not just any action sequence would do . 
it must have _original_ action sequences that are designed to thrill . 
like , drill , darn it , drill ! ! ! 
and , let's have inept people destroy the mir space station ! ! 
can't you hear your heart beating ! ? 
and steve buscemi goes crazy and starts shooting at people ! ! 
what drama ! ! 
lastly , armageddon is out there to save the planet , with a capital " p " . 
this can't be any old thriller--we must have an asteroid , the size of texas head straight for earth ! ! 
and , and , we must have beautiful scenic worldwide shots , like paris , blown up . 
and , and , we must have peoples of all colors , nations , and religions , join hand in hand for one final , hopeful , hug . 
the final sequence , where muslims in prostrate worship stand up--in domino fashion--to cheer the victory , filled me with such emotional goo that i wanted to , to , to rip the screen into shreds ! ! 
i mean , i mean , cheer for ecstatic joy ! 
 ( it was over ) . 
comedy . " c " . 
romance . 
 " r " . 
action . 
 " a " . 
planet . 
 " p " . 
okay , kids , what does that spell ? 
seriously , folks . 
any film that could take the indie-films' most valuable talents , and throw it all away with a bruce willis vehicle , a hundred-million dollar budget , but have cheap-o sets and lousy special effects , is , bottom line , living proof that hell exists , and has made a multi-picture deal with universal . 
in the midst of all the action , the terseness , the one-liners , the fake sets , the overall waste of time , i recognized matt malloy playing an underwritten nasa technician ( " malloy , give me a reading " ) . 
remember him ? 
he was a principal player in last year's _in the company of men_ , a film that was more powerful , shocking , terrifying , funny , and shocking than _armageddon_ could ever aspire to be . 
_armageddon_ cost over $100 million to make . 
_itcom_ cost a paltry $30 , 000 . 
need i say more ? 
deserves recognition for : achieving the near-impossible task of making a grander monument to self-love than steven seagal's on deadly ground . 
capsule review : a question : after the floating baby ruth that was waterworld , what in the @$&% were the hollywood execs who gave kevin costner the money to make another post-apocalyptic movie thinking ? 
in this 3 hour advertisement for his new hair weave , costner plays a nameless drifter who dons a long dead postal employee's uniform and gradually turns a nuked-out usa into an idealized hippy-dippy society . 
 ( judging by the costuming at the end of the movie , the main accomplishment of this brave new world is in re-inventing polyester . ) 
when he's not pointing the camera directly at himself , director costner does have a nice visual sense , and it is undeniably fascinating to see such an unabashedly jingoistic film in the trust-no-one 90's ; but by the time the second hour rolled around , i was reduced to sitting on my hands to keep from clawing out my own eyes . 
mark this one " return to sender " . 
starring ben stiller , elizabeth hurley , maria bello , janeane garofalo screenplay by david veloz , based on the novel by jerry stahl directed by david veloz 
permanent midnight is a pretty bad movie , though it took me a few days to conclude this . 
the film is more masturbatory than bleak , with its main character intent on confounding us with his stupidity . 
 ( he has a $6000 a week drug habit . ) 
ultimately , as adapted by veloz , jerry stahl comes off as one of those playground braggarts who chainsmokes at the age of twelve ; you are less mystified by his self-destructive nature than bored into a stupor yourself . 
ben stiller plays stahl , a young author who arrives in l . a . with ambition and a nasty drug habit . 
he eventually gets a gig for $5000/week writing for a sitcom called mr . chompers ( a thinly veiled stand-in for " alf " : chompers looks just like alf except he's blue ) , marries a producer ( hurley ) so she can get a green card , and hooks up with a spanish mother ( liz torres ) , who shoots heroin with him in the afternoons . 
insert proverbial downward spiral here . 
permanent midnight is structured mostly as a flashback , with recovering addict bello meeting stiller ( at a fastfood restaurant , where stiller works the drive-thru as part of rehab ) , taking him back to a hotel , and between bouts of serious screwing , listening to his life story . 
i've spent the last week trying to figure out why stiller never seemed to find the frighteningly gorgeous hurley attractive-worse , i've been trying to figure out why hurley did find stiller attractive . 
as stahl , stiller displays none of the charm or wit one would expect ( post-there's something about mary ) of either the actor or a comedy writer . 
what separates stahl from the hundreds of other hollywood punk-junkies , it seems , is that stahl wrote a book about his idiocy . 
watch stahl shoot heroin next to a baby ! 
watch stahl spoil numerous pitch meetings with smack-fueled babble ! 
stiller gives a technically flawless performance : the film could double as a documentary on how to be a junkie . 
but permanent midnight is mostly soulless . 
when the movie poses the question will stahl be saved ? 
and then answers it in the form of bello's character ( basically a shrink in black panties ) , could a person care less ? 
in the film version of his autobiography of the same name , stahl doesn't need saving , he needs someone who will sit there and listen to him go on about himself . 
if you learn anything about the other characters in this movie , it's that they are the most incredibly tolerant hollywood-types known to man . 
 ( stahl also seems to be the only person at schmooze parties doing drugs . 
is this hollywood . . . california ? ) 
i learned very little about the entertainment business from permanent midnight and a whole lot about an egotistical lunkhead . 
of course you know that stahl triumphed because he lived to talk about his problems . 
so , basically , his drug habit got him a book deal , a movie based on his life , and now he's apparently collaborating with stiller on future projects . 
so much for the moral of that story . 
temporary midnight is more like it . 
-bill chambers ; september , 1998 
the camera zooms in incredibly close . 
it focuses on the closed eyes of a person presumed dead . 
all of a sudden , with a thunderous sound effect and an eerie sounding musical pulse , his eyelids open . 
the camera zooms in incredibly close . 
it focuses on one of the characters desperately running for her life . 
then , with a thunderous sound effect and an eerie sounding musical pulse , she bumps into the killer . 
the camera zooms in incredibly close . 
it focuses on a door from where seemingly strange sounds emanate . 
all of a sudden , with a thunderous sound effect and an eerie sounding musical pulse , the doors swing open to reveal what's inside . 
close-up thrill-shots such as these seemed to elicit more laughter from the audience rather than genuine fear , which is a pretty good sign that you're not watching the thriller that the director had originally envisioned . 
rather , you adopt the opinion that the characters are so goofy and so unaware of the trouble that they're in , that you stop caring about who lives , who dies and where the story goes . 
instead , you become more interested in how the characters get killed off . 
the four young teenagers who are the potential sacrificial lambs for this movie are helen and barry and julie and ray - two couples and dear friends to one another . 
during the summer just after high school graduation , they take a fateful drive down a dark mountain highway . 
suddenly , without warning , their car hits someone whom the teens presume was killed as a result of that collision . 
fearing jail time and possible manslaughter charges if they confess , they instead decide to dump the body into the ocean and make a pact never to discuss the episode again . 
a year goes by and things among the four friends begin to change . 
relationships fizzle , future dreams crumble , and attitudes change . 
but , they can not forget what they did . 
and apparently , neither can someone else . 
someone begins to send letters to all four of the teens with the frightening message : " i know what you did last summer . " 
the letter-writer ( a figure in a rubber slicker wielding a large metal hook ) soon makes his presence known and begins to hunt down the four teens . 
it's now up to the four of them to try to figure out who the killer is before it's too late . 
while this movie has some nice visually eerie effects , too much of it's impact had to be generated with extreme close-ups , while the level of suspense was choppy at best . 
there is so much more that this movie could have been , but decided to give us nothing but cheap thrills . 
it could have been a clever whodunit , but discovering who ultimately was the killer made me just shrug my shoulders . 
it could have explored the changed friendships after a year of adulthood , but seemed to only include that aspect to add 15 more minutes to the film . 
it could have given us smarter characters who knew that anytime you're alone and you see shadowy figures moving about , you don't walk towards them yelling " hello " . 
once you yell " hello " , you can expect an extreme close-up , a thunderous sound effect and an eerie sounding musical pulse . 
it's difficult to be in suspense when you know what's about to happen . 
the only redeeming aspect of the movie is that i now have a neat idea for a halloween costume , but i'm not sure if the local costume store sells rubber slickers and hooks . 
the horror that i experienced from this film is realizing that i actually went to see it . 
 " goodbye , lover " sat on the shelf for almost a year since its lukewarm reception at the cannes film festival last may , and one look will tell you why . 
it's a mess . 
and that's * way * before ellen degeneres shows up . 
the film is one of those torrid double-indemnity crime stories that , in this case , required the services of three screenwriters . 
i suspect that one wrote a sexy thriller , one wrote a murder mystery , and one wrote a comedy , then director roland joff ? tried to piece it all together in the editing room while scratching his head in bewilderment . 
i didn't laugh at ellen degeneres much ( i think i was supposed to ) . 
degeneres is horrible and her character is even worse , a tough-talking vulgar cop with a bad wardrobe and bad hair . 
either degeneres is wearing a wig--as most of the actors appear to be--or she doesn't yet have enough clout to secure a hairstylist . 
every single word out of her mouth is supposed to be racy and hip , but her incessant wisecracking is poorly-written and merely stupid . 
her reaction to the brutal killing of a jogger is " at least she died healthy . " 
and that's one of her wittier asides . 
degeneres' sgt . 
rita pompano is called in to investigate the allegedly accidental death of . . . wait . 
to give away too much of the plot would all but ruin a film that has very little going for it outside of its numbing plot twists and multiple triple-crosses . 
it's best described this way : 
sultry sexpot/real estate agent sandra dunmore ( patricia arquette ) is married to jake , a " creative yet unfocused " ( and alcoholic ) advertising rep , played by dermot mulroney . 
sandra likes to act out her deep-seated sexual fantasies and jake's brother ben ( the suave-as-ever don johnson ) likes to help . 
ben is also coming on to his petite , mousy co-worker peggy blaine ( mary-louise parker ) and someone , somewhere , is planning to cash in on that huge life insurance policy of his . 
the film is ripe with cheating lovers cheating on each other and back again . 
although there are some genuine surprises , the plot twists get too contrived too quickly . 
probably around the time degeneres' gumcracking gumshoe appears . 
at least the former " ellen " star is going for something a little different . 
arquette turns in yet another of her stiletto-heeled , platinum blonde bombshell roles ( see : " lost highway , " " true romance " ) while quoting embarrassing lines like " i'm not wearing any underwear . " 
i hope she got paid a lot of money to do this . 
here's an example of some of the film's flat-out stupidity . 
sandra purchases a used car and disguises herself in a red wig prior to stalking two of the film's duplicitous lovers . 
she drives the motorbiking couple off a cliff while blaring her favorite " the sound of music " on her car stereo , intent on identifying herself to her hapless victims . 
so what was the point of the wig and the car ? 
 " the sound of music " stuff might be a reference to " the wizard of oz " allusions in david lynch's " wild at heart , " but if so joff ? must have forgotten that " wild at heart " was a despicable movie . 
it's hard to believe that " goodbye , lover " was directed by the same person who made " the killing fields " and " the mission . " 
it's not , however , hard to see why it sat on the shelf for so long . 
it should have stayed there . 
as with any gen-x mtv movie ( like last year's dead man on campus ) , the movie is marketed for a primarily male audience as indicated by its main selling points : sex and football . 
those two items , wrapped in a guilty-pleasure package , are sure to snare a sizeable box office chunk initially , but sales will decline for two reasons . 
first , the football sequences are nothing new , nor can they be ; the sports genre isn't mainstream and it's been retread to death . 
second , the sex is just bad . 
despite the appearance of a whipped cream bikini or the all-night strip-club party , there's nothing even remotely tantalizing . 
the acting is mostly mediocre , not including the fantastic jon voight . 
cultivating his usual sliminess , voight gives an unexpectedly standout performance as west canaan coyotes head coach bud kilmer . 
kilmer is the driving force behind the coyotes' twenty-two conference championships and two state titles in thirty years ; this year he plans to make it twenty-three . 
unfortunately , when his star quarterback , lance harbor ( paul walker ) , goes down for the count , he's got to rely on the unreliable abilities of backup john moxon ( james van der beek ) . 
moxon leads the team through its last four games , and then must cope with his newfound stardom , the effect it has on his relationship with girlfriend julie ( amy smart ) , and other temptations that abound in football-crazy west canaan . 
most regions of the country are not nearly as football-crazy as texas , and so the atmosphere is likely to be lost on most . 
similarly , the set design is wrong for a high school setting : the teams are decked out with sparkling uniforms , radio headsets ( which never seem to work , however , and instead require coaches to signal plays manually ) , and even a giant bronze statue of coach kilmer . 
these elements ( as well as the heavy drinking and carousing ) might be more appropriate on a college campus -- but mtv's core audience is the high school demographic . 
this focus is further emphasized by the casting : james van der beek , of tv's " dawson's creek , " is an understandable choice for the reluctant hero , although he never manages to do anything with the role . 
other stars are similarly young and unmemorable . 
there's not much that goes right about varsity blues , and there's not much to like about it , either . 
everything herein has already been done , and if it hasn't , the movie manages to botch it one way or another . 
this is certainly missable . 
nicolas cage comes up with an ingenious survival mechanism for his role in the wink-and-a-concussive-nudge bombast-o-rama con air . 
the opening credits sequence introduces us to cage as cameron poe , a gulf war veteran convicted of manslaughter and serving eight years in prison after an ill-fated bar-room brawl . 
the prison scenes are accompanied by voice-overs in which poe , in a languid southern drawl , describes prison life to his wife back home and offers simple homilies for the daughter he has never met . 
if the scene gives you a tickle of familiarity , it probably should . 
cage appears to realize that con air is going to be utterly dim-witted and ridiculous , and that he's going to have to do something to keep himself entertained . 
and thus he slips into a familiar , surreal role as his own commentary on the proceedings -- cage plays cameron poe as a buffed-up version of raising arizona's h . i . mcdonnough . 
cage should have known what he was getting himself into . 
he got a paycheck from jerry bruckheimer last year for the rock , and if there's one thing you can count on from a bruckheimer production ( even without his late partner don simpson ) , it's that you can count on seeing everything you saw in the _last_ bruckheimer production . 
the critical difference between the rock and con air is cage's performance . 
in the rock , cage appeared to be having the time of his life jumping into the action fray for the first time . 
that sense of discovery has been replaced by a wry self-awareness . 
while the plot of con air finds poe a parolee on board a hijacked prison transport plane whose goal is just to get home , cage's goal is different but just as simple : to get out of the film with some measure of dignity intact . 
audiences , too , should know what they're getting themselves into with a bruckheimer production . 
in fact , the marketing people are counting on it . 
no one who loathed the rock for its swear-grunt-blast repetitiveness will be converted by con air ; no one who loved the rock for exactly the same reasons will be dissuaded . 
director simon west ( yet another tv commercial auteur plucked by bruckheimer from the advertising equivalent of the schwab's soda fountain ) delivers exactly the kind of adrenaline/testosterone cocktail which could launch an endocrinology lecture ( it's perversely appropriate that one sympathetic con spends most of the flight nearing a diabetic coma ; like insulin , con air does the work of a gland ) . 
what he doesn't deliver is a moment of suspense . 
a bruckheimer film has no use for hitchcock's notion that showing you the bomb under the desk creates a more interesting scene than just blowing up the desk ; a really , _really_ big desk and a really , _really_ big bomb will serve the purpose nicely . 
if either west or bruckheimer were interested in genuine tension , they might have done something with con air's creepiest set-up . 
at a desert stop for the plane-load of convicts , serial killer garland greene ( steve buscemi ) wanders of into a trailer park where he meets a little girl having a tea party in a drained swimming pool . 
their tete-a-tete is eerie and menacing , providing a welcome shift in tone and giving buscemi a chance to stand out in a cast with too many villains ( danny trejo , ving rhames and a characteristically reptilian john malkovich among them ) . 
in fact , con air usually opts for too much of something when the tiniest measure of restraint would have been an improvement -- too many characters , too much editing , too many dopey punch lines , too much of the cheap , ugly appeals to machismo which characterize too many bruckheimer efforts . 
it is that kind of exhausting excess to which cage is responding with his detached performance . 
while malkovich goes for the outrageous and john cusack ( as a u . s . marshal ) goes for earnest , cage looks like he just wants to go to sleep . 
his recycled raising arizona performance is a means of escape , his chase after a stuffed bunny a continuation of his pursuit of that big box of huggies . 
it doesn't bode well for cage's appearance in face/off later this month ; perhaps he already realizes that all he can do in action films is more of the same over and over . 
there's a word for people like you , nicolas . 
that word is called recidivist . . . repeat 
offender . 
a big house . 
a big director , jan de bont of speed and twister fame . 
a big star , catherine zeta-jones , hot of the heels of entrapment ( 6 . 5/10 ) and zorro . 
a big remake of the haunting . 
and big special effects . 
so what do they all amount to ? 
unfortunately for us , a big bore ! 
plot : a hotshot doctor brings three insomniacs to an old , spooky mansion for controlled testing . 
unbeknownst to the patients , the good doctor is actually conducting his own cover project that has to do with the psychology of fear . 
critique : this movie just didn't scare me one bit . 
sure , it creeped and spooked me out a little here and there , but on the whole , it took waaaaay too long to get going , provided very little meat in the plot , went way past its own bedtime , and basically relied on grunts , the muttering of children's voices and over-the-top special effects , to scare us . 
well , this film didn't do much for me . 
and they might as well have called it the " haunting of lily taylor " , since she's basically the only character who had any real depth , background or reason to be in the house in the first place . 
don't get me wrong , catherine zeta was sweet window dressing ( despite my continued perception of her faint mustache-see entrapment ) , and owen wilson was good as the standard " comic relief " , but come on people , if you're going to have us sit through two hours in a theater with these folks , how 'bout giving them a little more than one-liners as dimension . 
neeson was also wasted as the smart , british guy . 
it's all too sad , cause certainly the " idea " seemed like a good one ( see the shining ( 9/10 ) for a close to perfect example of a creepy gone awry ) , but the story was thin , the conclusion was laughable ( be gone . . . poof ! ) and the special effects ? 
well , they sure were nice to look at , but not for a moment did one of them scare , or even for a split-second , have me believe that they were anything more than hollywood special gadgetry . 
see it for zeta-jones , or if you like special effects and scary movies that take forever to get going , and provide very little payback , otherwise skip it and check out the original or the ultimate movie about spooky homes from the netherworld , the shining . 
little known facts about this film and its stars : goofy actor owen wilson co-scripted indie favorites rushmore ( 8/10 ) and bottle rocket with director wes anderson . 
his brother luke wilson is also an actor , who once dated drew barrymore for a year or so . 
brother andrew is also an actor . 
singer lisa loeb is listed in the credits as having portrayed the character of olivia morice , but i personally did not notice her . 
she is well known for her number one single " stay ( i missed you ) " and goofy glasses . 
the creaks and moans heard throughout the house were prerecorded and played during filming in order to get a more natural expression of fear out of the actors . 
catherine zeta-jones is currently dating flabby ass actor michael " sex is my life " douglas . 
she stands 5'8 " . 
in 1998 , actor michael rapaport pleaded guilty to the aggravated harassment of lily taylor . 
he was ordered to stay away from her and undergo counseling for one year . 
actor bruce dern , who plays the throwaway role of the gatekeeper in this film , was once nominated for an oscar for best supporting actor for his role in coming home . 
director jan de bont was born in holland , and began his lengthy career as a cinematographer on films as die hard , hunt for red october and basic instinct , directed by another dutchman , paul verhoeven . 
actor todd field also played a small but pivotal role in stanley kubrick's last film , eyes wide shut . 
he was nick nightingale , the pianist . 
this film was originally titled the haunting of hill house . 
it's always a bad sign when the core audience of a film -- children -- are either walking out early or are half-asleep when the credits roll at the end of a film . 
that about sums up the dreadful ugliness of 102 dalmatians , a cold pea soup of cute animals , stupid home alone antics , a boring puppy love subplot between dumb humans , and glenn close reprising her best joan crawford impression . 
indeed , walt disney is rolling over in his grave again , cursing john hughes' name for making the original live-action 101 dalmatians , one of the worst kiddie flicks of all time , and now its sequel . 
the main culprit behind the hideousness of 102 dalmatians is its predecessor , 101 dalmatians . 
the original made more than $100 million dollars at the box office , spawned a torrid collection of " collectible " items that ended up months later in the discount bins of wal-marts across the country , and generally made every kid on the planet want a damn dalmatian pup for christmas . 
well , it's been about four years since then , and dalmatian fever is coming back , and this time it's digitally enhanced . 
here's the story . 
cruella de vil ( glenn close ) is released from prison due to the " cure " of her puppy homicide urges by one dr . pavlov . 
 ( oh , how witty . ) 
she rejoins the world as a dog lover and is assigned to a probation officer , who oddly turns out to be her victim from the original film . 
cruella then becomes ella -- dog lover -- until the plot twists , like a dog with his leash caught on the back of a moving truck , and she becomes the evil vixen again . 
a kidnapping plot unfurls again as cruella decides she still needs her dalmatian coat , but she now needs 102 dalmatians instead of the commonly used 101 dalmatian formula . 
at this point , i was envying those kids filing out of the theater . 
how low have glenn close and gerard depardieu ( as the film's villain ) sunk in the film business ? 
it's almost laughable in a sadistic way to watch close walk around in costumes that seem to be pulled from the wardrobe of flash gordon . 
and depardieu . . . 
how can a french guy have a bad french accent ? 
and never mind the toilet brush haircut . 
the only minutely positive selling point i can even think to point out is the talking bird with a british accent ( courtesy of eric idle ) that thinks he's a rottweiler . 
now that's funny . 
 " the animal " is a marginally inspired comedy that only manages to lumber along , generating just enough momentum to keep it from stalling . 
it's clunky and slow , like watching an 18-wheeler trying to accelerate up a hill . 
there are certainly better things you can do with your time . 
actually , if you've seen the trailer , then you already know the plot and have seen its funniest moments . 
the story centers on bland marvin ( rob schneider ) , who is an evidence clerk at the local police department that yearns to be a real officer . 
but he's afflicted with loser-itis . 
dogs attack him , neighbors torment him , children bully him , and his co-workers ignore him . 
truthfully , with his bad haircut ( seemingly modeled after weird al yankovic , little richard , and giant poodles ) and his unenthusiastic demeanor , we'd probably throw tomatoes at him just for fun . 
this is actually bad because you can't like a character if you can't develop sympathy for him . 
we never do , and it may be just as well that he drives off a cliff and plummets to the canyon floor . 
however , marvin is found by an eccentric doctor ( michael caton ) who uses a radical and experimental procedure to save him , implanting our doofus with various animal parts and organs . 
as a result , marvin develops heightened senses and increased agility and speed . 
he can smell drugs hidden anywhere on a body , swim with the speed of a dolphin , and can run as fast as a cheetah . 
imagine the comedic possibilities that arise from this operation . 
with his enhanced abilities , he could now reap vengeance on all those who have shunned him . 
however , the spirit of the film takes a raunchy turn , and instead , marvin spends most of his time trying to subdue or satiate his voracious appetite and his animalistic , sexual urges . 
goats beware ! 
he also chases cats , urinates to mark his territory , or growls at his enemies . 
what he should've done was stick his head in the sand like an ostrich . 
equally tenuous is its other running joke , which involves one of his friends ( guy torry ) who constantly complains that everyone is treating him too nicely because he's black . 
 " it's reverse racism , " he declares as he blows smoke into the faces of strangers but none of them says anything . 
this element doesn't work the first time it's mentioned , and it becomes increasingly trite with every recurrence . 
you don't have to be as wise as an owl to realize that " the animal " is tame . 
if there's any reason to see this film , it's to see colleen haskell who makes her big screen debut . 
remember her ? 
she was voted off in week 11 of the 13-week program , " survivor . " 
here , she plays marvin's sunny love interest . 
while her role required very little actual acting , she seemed very comfortable ( even when marvin licks the side of her face like a lapping dog . . . yuck ! ) . 
with her adorable disposition , radiant smile , and playful innocence , she could be a meg ryan in the making . 
it's too bad that she's in such a mediocre offering 
romeo is bleeding wants to carry the unusual flavor of reservoir dogs or bad lieutenant . 
with director peter medak , whose previous credits include the good films let him have it and the krays , and top-notch character actors gary oldman and lena olin , they seemed likely to be a successful combination . 
those mentioned films , however , brought something to the screen that romeo is bleeding did not : a solid , well-written screenplay . 
call me cynical , but the jobs of writer and producer don't seem to mix well . 
gary oldman plays jack grimaldi , a good cop turned bad , selling information to the mob and cheating on his wife . 
his cheating is obvious enough to obtain his nickname , although the name doesn't provide any insight or analogy to the shakespearean character . 
jack has become addicted to " feeding the hole " , a hole in the ground where he stores his payoff money . 
when he realizes his colleagues are being shot , he feebly attempts to get out . 
gary oldman's performance is disappointingly weak ; he seems nearly bored . 
in the process , he also gets tangled-up with mona demarkov , a russian mobsterette who wants to take over the territory from top boss falcone , played adequately by roy scheider . 
demarkov , played by lena olin , is a tough but tremendously sexy woman with seemingly no problems maneuvering within the mob world . 
this character is combination of both linda hamilton and arnold schwarznegger from terminator 2 . i can't remember seeing a character quite like her . 
after being shot , handcuffed , and thrown in the back seat of a car , she still manages to cause an accident , kick out the windshield with her legs , grab a suitcase full of money ( plus some important documentation ) , climb through the rubble , land on her shot leg , and still succeed at running for safety . 
what a woman ! 
lena olin's performance is the only glimmer in this dismal film . 
anabella sciorra is wasted in her role as romeo's wife . 
there is little insight into her character . 
she's depressed , she makes obvious references , she mopes around the house . 
juliette lewis , as romeo's girlfriend , is treated with the same cliche attitudes , although ms . lewis' portrayal certainly didn't improve it . 
both women were anything but sexy or attractive . 
poorly developed characters aside , the screenplay also suffers from several logistical problems . 
it is so discouraging to watch a film and want to shout at the main character ( not ) to do something . 
for example , jack and his friends attend a funeral to hang in the background to scope-out the mob scene . 
fine . 
jack spots the big boss with his goons by the gravesite . 
fine . 
what does jack proceed to do ? 
he brushes his friends off by telling them he isn't feeling well , then strolls over to the boss . 
why ? 
the boss had all ready threatened him ; falcone simply takes the opportunity to issue more threats by ordering his goons to take off some of jack's toes by the gravesite . 
i guess they weren't worried about any federal agents lingering around after the funeral . . . . 
or here's another : demarkov set-up her own death by cutting off her arm with a circular saw . 
she proceeded to set the place on fire . 
wouldn't the flames burn off the fingerprints ? 
aren't dental records more important ? 
as bright and resourceful as she was supposed to be , couldn't she come up with a better plot ? 
 ( and it took her no time at all to get a good-fitting , functional prosthesis . ) 
lack of attention to detail certainly adds up in a film . 
this film doesn't even add up the large details . 
there is little or no consistency in the story-line . 
not much makes sense . 
the direction lacks cohesion , surprising from a director whose previous credits are impeccable . 
the moods shift , the styles shift , and no one can seem to decide if it is a serious film or satire of one . 
so while it certainly isn't reservoir dogs , it certainly isn't diva . 
there's plenty more to tear apart in this film . 
my advice to someone who hasn't seen it to to wait until it comes on video . 
there are some quotable lines that would provide a campy evening if not taken seriously . 
it's not a boring film , just not a good one . 
or an intelligent one . 
54 is dull , perfunctory , uninspired , and boring . 
a greater writer might have created a lyrical sentence for each of those adjectives , flowing in lovely arangements with soaring metaphors . 
i , however , would rather cut to the chase . 
54 is dull , perfunctory , uninspired , and boring . 
there is nothing in it -- not a glimpse of depth , nor a shimmer of intelligence or insight . 
there is no electricity in any of the scenes , or a moment of interest in the story or its subplots . 
and it's underdeveloped , and features an array of bland characters played by actors who think they're in this year's boogie nights . 
they are so wrong . 
the picture has been assembled by mark christopher . 
based on this film , i don't know how he got a job in the business . 
54 is supposed to be an amazing insight into the world of the dance club of the same name , which originated in the 70s and closed down in the 80s . 
i don't know if this film went into production after boogie nights was released , but christopher has managed to plagiarize paul thomas anderson's brilliant work in every possible way , from the framework of the plot down to the style of the cinematography . 
what it lacks is everything that made boogie nights great : depth , intelligence , energy , fascinating characters , and challenging themes . 
54 can't even measure up to the last days of disco , which is flawed , but still smart and entertaining . 
it's remarkably bad timing , i'd say , to release a film this tedious after a couple of noteworthy pictures of the same kind . 
i have exaggerated , though : there is one interesting character , and one terrific performance . 
that character is steve rubell , played with more perceptiveness by mike myers than this limp production deserves . 
steve rubell is the owner of studio 54 , and if christopher had focused on him , then myers could have forced a good film out of this wreck all by himself . 
alas , we are instead guided to endure the trials of a young man named shane ( ryan phillippe ) , a going-nowhere new jersey teen who gets a job in the club , thanks to rubell's homosexual impulses . 
it's here that he meets his friends , the array of uninteresting characters : his co-worker , greg ( brecklin meyer ) , his wife , anita ( salma hayek ) , and , of course , the love interest , julie black ( neve campbell ) . 
shane is just an innocent young fool in the beginning , and he has a reasonably sturdy home life . 
 ( some of the scenes with his father border on interesting , while heather matarazzo , who plays his sister , pushes phillippe off the screen . ) 
but he decides to envelop himself in the disco scene , and succumb to peer pressure and to drugs . 
why his " friends " push him into drugs is never really explained , but the fact that they are " friends " is questioned only is superficial ways ( greg gets really mad at shane because he's been elevated to bartender status ) . 
there isn't a single conflict that takes center stage , except that shane has some kind of unexplored reservation with the business in which he works . 
most of the film is dumb , and most of the dialogue is inane . 
there's a scene late in the film in which shane confronts julie black , and , in the next scene , they're arm-in-arm without a bit of development . 
then , they're kissing in a bowling alley ! 
this is five minutes of material , thrown into the picture at the last minute ( well past the one-hour mark , and this isn't a long film to begin with ) . 
campbell is a talented actress , but she needs a role that gives her a little depth . 
this one doesn't . 
and phillippe has almost no presence whatsoever ; this performance pales in comparison to mark whalberg's star-making role in boogie nights . 
he seems dumb and misguided , and his voice never changes tone . 
i guess he was picked for the color of his hair and the shape of his body , but he seems pretty lanky to me . 
he's all wrong for a lead role , but it doesn't help that christopher has forgotten to develop his characters . 
by the end of 54 , shane's most notable trait is his stupid , fake accent . 
the rest of the performances are wasted . 
hayek is an energetic , talented young actress , and does almost nothing here . 
meyer is endearing , but allowed to be no deeper than cardboard . 
only myers , by sheer force of talent , manages to rise above christopher's wading-pool of a script . 
rubell has been written just as depthless as the rest of the characters , but myers is good enough to inject subtleties that help round out the performance . 
in fact , myers is the sole reason to see 54 , and all it really does is make you wish that the film had revolved around him . 
i've read that studio 54 has been recreated down to the last detail . 
frankly , i don't care . 
it's easy to recreate something technical like this . 
a fairly skilled production designer and a few carpenters can manage such a task . 
besides , christopher keeps the lights so low that the sets are invisible , anyway . 
aside from myers' performance , 54 is a complete failure . 
it's dull , perfunctory , uninspired , and boring . 
some may find my comparisons to boogie nights unfair , but they're so obvious to me . 
in any event , 54 is pallid without the contrast . 
it doesn't even work as mindless entertainment : it's so shallow that the most escapist viewers are likely to dismiss it . 
so , don't forget those key words : dull , perfunctory , uninspired , and boring . 
everything else i said was just padding . 
an experience like baby geniuses can have certain effects on an average moviegoer . 
you may be scarred for life after seeing this petrified piece of garbage , which is so disarmingly horrible that it may cause you to ponder it's hollywood existence . 
when i think of the screenwriters behind this film , i picture a room full of monkeys . 
the monkeys are pounding on their typewriters while scratching themselves . 
all of the monkeys combine their efforts , hop in a cab and take the finished product downtown to director bob clark's office . 
the designated monkey explains the plot by jumping up and down on clark's desk while flailing his arms and shrieking . 
the director appears to be deep in thought , until he slams his fist down on the desktop and exclaims `i love it ! ! ! ' 
the writing behind this project is embarrassing . 
for your amusement , i will explain the plot . 
dr . kinder ( kathleen turner ) and dr . heep ( christopher lloyd ) are two of the cold-hearted executives at the baby geniuses institute , where peculiar studies are going on . 
as the story goes , there is an ancient myth explaining that babies ( ages 2 and under ) know all the secrets of the world from previous life experiences . 
when they move past this phase , they become like any other drooling toddler . 
kinder and heep want to unlock the secrets using their test babies , namely little sylvester ( sly for short ) , who can break in or out of any given situation so efficiently that he would be right at home on the mission : impossible team . 
there is so much crap derived from this premise , despite the fact it's virtually identical to the plot in look who's talking ! 
 ( a far superior film in any league ) . 
you will be able to determine the quality of the film by examining the opening scene . 
sylvester has broken out and managed to elude several security guards with his amazing intellect and kung-fu tactics . 
question : it's obvious the babies are super-smart , but why are they able to fight like jackie chan ? ? 
the adults in this film are furiously beaten by these youngsters in diapers . 
it's a shock when writers will stoop this low just to draw cheap laughs by using john hughes' familiar home alone formula . 
i also found it disturbing that the babies in this film have attitude and endless 90's knowledge , quoting numerous movies and insulting their adult captors . 
the effects in baby geniuses ( similar to the talking animals in babe ) are pathetic , the editing is a disaster , and the jokes are never funny . 
the only reason viewers may avoid vomiting is the argument that the babies are `cute' . 
i suppose they are . 
i can admit to smiling a few times because the babies were cute . 
other instances , though , i was howling in laughter due to the inane stupidity of the script . 
there are supporting characters who have no personality whatsoever ; their entire existence is based on punch lines . 
peter macnicol and kim cattrall , as an unwilling couple who have adopted sylvester's twin , are both miscast . 
then again , i don't suppose any performer could handle the uneven material without looking incredibly stupid . 
meanwhile , dom deluise plays a fellow who gets hit in the crotch with a monkey wrench ( hahaha ) . 
i would avoid baby geniuses at all costs . 
instead of watching this , i would recommended filling your bathtub with cement and going snorkeling . 
or perhaps you would consider going diving in shark-infested waters . 
anything to avoid this painful movie . 
the final line in the film , spoken by the bratty sylvester , is `if they think i'm doing the sequel for less than $20 mill , they're nuts' . 
sequel ? 
please have mercy . 
 " houston . we have a serious problem . " 
after making " mission : impossible " , brian de palma has a lot to live up to . 
by making an epic science fiction and inviting great cast and talented crew , he hopes to reach the modern audience . 
and the possibilities are certainly there , but the result is a great disaster . 
starting in a near future , with a prologue copied from " apollo 13 " , de palma slowly builds up his " story " . 
the human race has already set foot on mars . 
a research expedition has vanished without trace on the red planet and another one has been sent to find out what happened . 
this is basically the whole plot . 
so it's hard to imagine that it can be stretched to 2 hours . 
but de palma manages to do that . 
it is not a very good achievement . 
as we follow this expedition to mars and watch them slowly float in space , the hardest thing to do is stay awake . 
the film's major problem is that it tries to seem more clever than it is . 
david mamet's dialogue , while trying to seem natural , is distant and simply fake . 
de palma and mamet wanted to combine action with a thought provoking plot . 
the result is more like an unsuccessful mutation of kubrick's " 2001 : a space odyssey " , " apollo 13 " and " godzilla " . 
to make time pass , the creators have inserted several " refreshing " scientific details , that would not convince a half-crazed frog . 
it consists of multiple copies and direct ripp-offs from several great science fiction films and stories . 
when it finally presents an almost original idea , it falls flat because of its uncovered stupidity . 
i can't even call this film predictable , since no one with a healthy imagination can come up with something like this . 
sometimes it gets so cheesy , that you'll start laughing when you're supposed to cry and cry when you're supposed to laugh . 
you'll see enormous sandstorms , hear mysterious sounds and , last but not least , on this " constantly surprising " tour you'll see -- an alien . 
it's really hard to find comparisons to such an experience , and i know that i've never said that before ( i thought i never would ) , but " lost in space " is actually better . 
that's an achievement in itself ! 
director brian de palma has stroke gold with " untouchables " that became an instant american classic . 
it is for this film that he will be remembered , while all his other failures will be forgotten . 
he'll live to fight another day ! 
i send the actors my condolences , since they truly do try to transform into their undeveloped and dull characters . 
and both the cinematography , production design and art direction are very decent . 
it is because of the achievement of 254 people , that i rate this film 2/10 . 
unfortunately their hard work was in vain . 
if you have problems with insomnia , i recommend you this film . 
if you're not asleep within the first half hour , consult your doctor . 
gun wielding arnold schwarzenegger has a change of heart by the film's end and becomes a believer in god instead of a skeptic , going through an amazing transformation by having a christian epiphany in the final scene as he becomes someone who can now beat the devil by his faith alone . . . this is after two hours of throwing people out windows and shooting more people than your average serial killer . 
nobody can save this bomb from it's own stupidity and arrogance in filmmaking and arrogance in believing that this is a positive religious-type of film . 
it's just a pile of dreck . . . an 
ill-conceived exploitive project , a pyrotechnical film . 
 " end of days " aims to be an apocalyptic thriller . 
it features an idiotic script , a hack director , and a one-dimensional star who is past his prime . . . which 
makes this film dumber than dumb , plus it's not funny , not campy , or is it in the least bit entertaining . 
it's just dreary and unwatchable . . . a 
big-budget slasher film . 
arnold plays an alcoholic security guard who finds his new mission in life is to stop satan ( occupying gabriel byrne's body and possessing a wall st . bank account ) from destroying the world . 
the film opens in vatican city , roma 1979 -- where the pope is alerted by a young visionary priest tomaso , looking out at the night sky and seeing a comet whiz by , who proclaims after looking at his scrolls -- that's the sign for the 'eye of god , ' which reveals that a child has been born who is being prepared to give birth to satan's baby ( the anti-christ ) in the hour before the new century begins , when satan will fuck her and open up the gates to hell on earth . 
tomaso has some twenty years to find this woman and save her and the world from doom . 
but some in the pope's circle want to kill her if found , even though the pope insists on having faith and letting her live , as he lectures them : " even in the world's darkest days -- doing evil doesn't stop evil , but brings on more evil . " 
we saw the girl being born in nyc in 1979 , which seems to be the 'logical' place to look for satan according to the astrology charts of the visionaries . 
the chosen woman is christine york ( robin ) . 
it is now a few days before the new year celebration for 2000 and arnold and his wise-cracking security guard partner kevin pollack are hired to guard a wall street turd , and when he is fired upon by a renograde priest , thomas aquinas , arnold saves him and through a ridiculous chase captures the tongue less priest who fired the shot . 
he , nevertheless , can speak and tells arnold an 'end of days' is coming as prophesized in revelations . 
but satan gets to him in his hospital room and nails him to the ceiling while scribbling latin warnings of 'the end of the world' on his body . 
it is now up to arnold to save the world and find the chosen woman . 
he quickly finds christine and does everything to protect her from all the evil forces around her , as the film includes ludicrous helicopter rescues , people jumping out of windows , satan taking a piss and dropping a match to kill arnold's partner as the piss explodes like gasoline , satan being fired at . . . resulting in his sometimes experiencing pain and sometimes nothing , as if the director forgot which way he wants to have it . 
there is nothing spared in nyc from fire bombs -- including the subway , churches , and luxury buildings . 
the only trouble with all these high-budget action sequences , was that it lacked purpose and even entertainment value . 
the story was so terrible and inaccurate , that it did not have an iota of value or credibility . 
mercifully the movie drags to a final confrontation in times square , trying unsuccessfully to build tension to the countdown toward the year 2000 . 
why is the end of 1999 considered to be the devil's number " 666 , '' well ! 
 . . . 
satan's numeral is actually " 999 , '' which is upside down of " 666 . '' 
accordingly , you just put a " 1'' in front of it-- and bingo -- you get " 1999 . '' 
with logic like that , this film might even think it pulled the wool over the viewer's eyes and got away with such a febrile explanation of the occult . 
this film should become a classic used by film schools in how not to make a horror film . 
i highly recommend seeing it for that purpose . 
after enduring mariah carey's film debut , glitter , i'm reminded of a bit from chris rock's bigger and blacker . 
in response to women saying that they can raise a child without a man , rock says , " you can drive a car with your feet , but that don't mean it should be done . " 
to that i say , you can give mariah carey a movie , but that certainly don't mean it should be done . 
sure , there are plenty of pop star film vehicles out there -- from the beatles' a hard day's night to the spice girls' spice world -- but none have been so vapidly pointless or laughable as glitter . 
everything about this complete tripe is ludicrous . 
start off with the story , which -- as gruesomely predictable as it is -- is the least offensive part of the movie . 
the film is inexplicably set in the 80s , a period piece that really shows no sign of its period except for a few chicks in leg warmers . 
worse yet , everyone's speaking late 90s hip-hop slang in what should be 1983 . 
meant to be partially autobiographical , carey plays billie frank , a young singer in new york who struggles to overcome a rough childhood and abandonment by her alcoholic mother . 
influential club dj julian dice , a . k . a . " lucky 7 " ( max beesley playing a bad mix of puff daddy and robert de niro ) , hears her sing on a track , and decides to make her a star . 
in predictably rapid succession , billie and dice fall for each other , she starts hitting it big , dice gets jealous and starts acting like an ass , and suddenly billie's on " the roller coaster of superstardom . " 
in the meantime , billie is on an emotional hunt for her missing mom . 
i won't give away the ending , but -- honestly -- just think of unicorns and rainbows . . . 
you'll figure it out . 
the movie screams to be made with camp , and that could've been fun . 
but the filmmakers thought making the bulk of glitter weepy and dramatic would be better . 
what a mistake . 
the brief attempts at comic relief -- as in a scene where an effeminate russian-sounding director gets wacky with filming billie's first music video -- go over like lead balloons . 
instead , the audience at my screening tended to laugh loudest during mariah's most dramatic scenes . 
which brings us to the performances , of which there's nothing good that can be said . 
mariah is primarily seen with a wide-eyed deer-in-the-headlights look frozen on her face . 
she actually looks scared during her one love scene . 
but you have to wonder if the writing isn't even worse . 
so much of the dialogue is so hackneyed and watered down for carey's virginal target audience that it's probably impossible for any actor to pull it off with aplomb . 
even the characters couldn't have been written more absurdly . 
they're all members of a barbie playset : the important film director who swoons , " billie , i'd love to put you in a movie i'm making , " and the big-time record executive who takes billie's demo tape and says , " oh , i'll make sure the whole team listens to it in the morning . " 
everyone in the film is a device , and it's painful to keep watching just to see another one appear . 
to say more would be a waste . 
there's so much wrong with this film . 
and , it pains me that mariah carey -- with her ego and sanity in such fragile condition these days , as evidenced by her multiple hospital stays -- will have to suffer through all the negative reviews she's likely to get . 
but , then again , i had to suffer through her movie . 
poster boy for co-dependency needs patching 
patch adams a film review by michael redman copyright 1999 by michael redman 
mediocrity is a pox on civilization . 
in our heavily consumer oriented society , there is an enormous demand to churn out " stuff . " 
what would happen to our economy if we didn't feel the need to have more things ? 
to make us buy more , businesses need to produce a ton of product . 
the sheer volume of items necessitates that most of them are of dubious quality . 
the film industry is like any other . 
in order for studios to survive , they have to make money . 
the prevailing attitude is that more films equal more profit . 
some movies obviously exist only to put wares on the screen and to do that , less talented people are used . 
there aren't enough great directors and actors to create the number of films necessary . 
for some reason , it's never crossed anyone's mind that the real equation is quality films = more profit . 
often , mediocre films are more of a pain for the audience than the horrendous ones . 
at you can have a good time making fun of bad movies . 
i'm not suggesting that " patch adams " was tossed out just to rake in the bucks . 
my guess is that someone was asleep at the wheel . 
it features an accomplished actor and a potentially engrossing story , but it's as dull as could be . 
hunter " patch " adams' ( robin williams ) desire to become a doctor has an unusual genesis . 
checking himself into a mental institute after a suicide attempt , he discovers that he can help the other patients by clowning around . 
patch could be a poster boy for co-dependency . 
he explains that he likes devoting himself to others because then he doesn't focus on his own problems . 
he decides that he wants to be a physician , leaves the place and a couple of years later enrolls in the medical college of virginia . 
as a med student , patch's antics at the school's hospital catch the attention of his soon to be arch-enemy , straight-laced dean walcott ( bob gunton ) . 
the dean is so opposed to the goofiness that he wants patch kicked out of school although he's one of the top students . 
he writes in patch's academic file that he shows " excessive happiness . " 
i walked into the film knowing little about its history and wondered about its odd mechanical pacing . 
there also seemed to be no reason that it is set in the early seventies . 
then it struck me . 
it must be based on a true story . 
the movie is an adaptation of a book by hunter adams who founded the gesundheit institute , a free clinic . 
robin williams is an amazing actor . 
while he is adept at dramatic roles , his forte is over-the-top free spirits . 
that's what makes his failure here so remarkable . 
patch is exactly the character he should be best at , yet even the scene where he and another mental patient are battling fierce imaginary squirrels falls flat . 
something holds him back . 
most of the rest of the cast is two-dimensional . 
for a film that champions seeing patients as human beings , it's curious that the ones here are cardboard characters . 
peter coyote as a man dying of cancer is refreshing because he seems like a real person . 
unfortunately he's in the film for only about two minutes . 
the audience is blatantly lead by a ring in its nose from scene to scene . 
we're not left to our own emotional decisions : we're hit over the head with them . 
shaved-headed children with cancer , an elderly woman whom patch makes laugh , a beautiful woman who can't love because of her abusive history . 
when a group of students fix up an old house to use as a clinic in the andy hardy " hey , let's put on a play ! 
we can use the barn and my mom can make the curtains ! " 
mode , they laugh and roll around while painting each other . 
there might as well be giant signs flashing : " feel good now ! " 
 " feel bad now ! " 
 " patch " is a good title for the film . 
it is a patchwork of every manipulative scene you can think of . 
the full-of-life student fights stodgy establishment types . 
there's a touching death . 
then there's another . 
the film doesn't trust us to get it the first time . 
the dean tries to kick patch out and later he tries again . 
worst of all is the final courtroom bit . 
scary-looking old men sit in judgment of a man who only wants to help people . 
the room is packed with patch's supporters . 
williams makes a supposedly impassioned speech about the humanity of all . 
it has as much emotion as his earlier statement " humans are the only animal that kills members of its own species " contains truth . 
most of the blame must be placed with the director tom shadyac and screenwriter steve oedekerk . 
shadyac also directed the first " ace ventura " movie . 
oedekerk directed the second one . 
need i say more ? 
the real adams is to be admired for his devotion to treating patients as people rather than diseases . 
the film has a number of worthy messages about the state of the modern medical business with hmos and managed care . 
the " doctors are not gods " theme will resonate with a number of people , but it's so poorly produced that no one will care . 
young einstein is embarrassingly lame , but that didn't stop it from becoming a phenomenon in australia , where it became the third largest box office hit of all time . 
in the u . s . , warner brothers is hoping the movie will follow in the footsteps of paul hogan , inxs , and shrimp on the barby to become the latest rage from down under . 
personally , i'm hoping americans everywhere will rise to the occasion and make young einstein a box office bomb . 
young einstein sprang from the twisted mind of yahoo serious , who not only wrote , produced , edited , and directed the film , but also starred and did his own stunts . 
his creation is about as stupid and contrived as you'd expect from someone named yahoo . 
the movie takes substantial historical liberties in recreating einstein's youth . 
whereas the scientist actually hailed from germany , the film finds him still living with his parents on tasmania , a remote australian island . 
in addition to deriving the formula for energy and the theory of relativity , albert invents surfing , bubbles in beer , and the electric guitar . 
yahoo plays einstein as a naive and unrefined country hick--a clown with an insatiable curiosity . 
although yahoo's performance is at first endearing , the one-dimensional characterization loses its novelty faster than you can say e=mc2 . 
yahoo has created a charming family for albert , and the scenes on tasmania are often clever . 
but after the first twenty minutes , the movie quickly plummets and degenerates into a poor excuse for a comedy . 
young einstein is hampered by its lethargic pace and inane plot . 
yahoo must be an mtv addict because his movie features an omnipresent soundtrack ; unfortunately , the music is altogether gratuitous and quickly becomes overbearing . 
almost every other scene includes a blaring rock song that leaves you wondering whether you are watching a movie or a music video . 
the instrumental score , on the other hand , is generally playful ; yahoo uses such classics as the " 1812 overture " and the theme from the good , the bad and the ugly to great comic effect . 
halfway through young einstein , i knew for sure the movie was a stinker . 
but it wasn't until the very end that i finally put my finger on why : the comedy takes its roots not from whimsical film fantasies ( such as young sherlock holmes ) but from cheesy prime-time sitcoms . 
in fact , young einstein might have been more at home on network television , where its sophomoric humor wouldn't raise any eyebrows . 
this is the last carry on film with its almost intact regular cast and it is the swansong of hattie jacques and sid james . 
dick turpin ( sid james ) and his gang which includes harriett/harry ( barbara windsor ) and tom " doc " scholl ( peter butterworth ) , terrorise the countryside by staging highway robberies : " stand and deliver ! " 
owing to the increased occurrence of turpin's robberies , captain desmond fancey of the bow street runners ( kenneth williams ) and his sidekick sergeant jock strapp ( jack douglas ) visit turpin's area of influence to bring him to justice . 
they are under the express orders of sir roger daley ( bernard bresslaw ) . 
their intellect does not count for much and when they increasingly become suspicious of reverend flasher aka dick turpin ( sid james ) , whom they confided in earlier , they still cannot believe that the rector has any part in these robberies . 
however , once they catch harriett and put her in jail , and sir roger daley takes complete charge , it seems that there is no hope for dick turpin . 
then again , sir roger has assigned the dimwits fancey and jock strapp aswell as the old dithering constable ( kenneth connor ) to keep an eye on their prisoner ! 
there is no doubt that this is a 'sid james' carry on movie . 
he excels in double roles ( as in 'carry on- don't lose your head' ) and his performance as flasher and turpin is hilarious . 
barbara windsor is also funny as harriett the sex mad housemaid and member of the gang , and hattie jacques' small but effective role as the rector's housekeeper martha hoggett is played to perfection . 
jack douglas plays a milder version of his excruciatingly annoying on-screen persona and kenneth williams is given a rather mundane part . 
peter butterworth is not allowed to shine in his boring performance as tom , and bernard bresslaw's character appears only briefly in the film . 
the only notable performance from the support cast comes from joan sims as madame desiree , who is travelling around the country escorting her starlets the 'birds of paradise' and sporting a fake french accent . 
when her girls and her are robbed by turpin , she is determined to catch him and helps the reverend to find the culprit ! 
a carry on by the numbers , this movie is only notable for the great performance by sid james in his last carry on movie . 
the jokes are bluer , the script is poorer ( it is the last script written by talbot rothwell ) , but the music is a marked improvement . 
although nearly all the regulars appear , they seem to be just going through the motions . 
none of the high spirits of the earlier films are apparent here . 
just a selection of crude jokes and repititive double-entendres . 
one of the first films of 1999 is this mtv pictures release which marks the first leading feature role for james van der beek , the star of the wb's runaway hit dawson's creek . 
following in the foot steps of mtv's two other live action films , joe's apartment ( 1996 ) and dead man on campus ( 1998 ) , varsity blues is a bad film and is unlikely to cause much of a sensation in the marketplace . 
set in west cannan , texas , the film examines the small town obsession with high school football through the eyes of second string quarterback john " mox " moxon ( van der beek ) . 
we know he's smart because he reads kurt vonnegut instead of the playbook . 
coach bud kilmer ( jon voight ) has been around so long there is actually a bronze statue commemorating him . 
the star quarterback , lance harbor ( paul walker ) , is a handsome , blonde , hero who has his own billboard in his front yard and dates the sexy head cheerleader , darcy ( ali larter ) . 
also on the team are an enormous guy ( ron lester ) with some health problems and the token african-american team member ( eliel swinton ) whose only real dialogue scene deals directly with the color of his skin . 
when lance is seriously injured , mox gets his chance to shine and he runs with it , undermining kilmer with his unusual playing strategies . 
his relationship with his dutiful girlfriend , jules ( amy smart ) , is threatened and there's a big game at the end . 
guess who wins ? 
nothing about varsity blues is inspired and the whole film simply moves through the sort of conventional motions that coach kilmer would love . 
there's a chance for some smart satire on small town obsessions but the humor here is decidedly lowbrow . 
van der beek does a decent job of carrying his first film although a silly accent trips him up sometimes . 
also , the role isn't very much of a stretch from his dawson leary character . 
he's still a pseudo-intellectual , whiny , nice guy , except here he also happens to be a jock . 
voight is a terror as he chews up every single piece of scenery and spits it out . 
the other adults are all notably awful while the younger performers don't fare much better . 
on the positive side , walker is a charismatic actor who is due for a breakout role following this and his supporting turn in pleasantville ( 1998 ) . 
scott ( son of james ) caan has some lively moments as tweeder , the team's wild man . 
larter , as a gorgeous seductress looking for a one way ticket out of texas , gets to show off the film's most interesting costumes , including a very eye-opening " whipped cream bikini . " 
it's interesting to note that the film definitely earns its r-rating with a lot of harsh language , alcohol abuse and an unusually high amount of nudity ( including a gratuitous trip to a strip bar that reveals a not very surprising surprise ) . 
all this is likely to come as a shock to the young female fan base of dawson's creek , presumably the target audience for the picture . 
director brian robbins previously helmed the kids feature good burger ( from nickelodeon films , a sister company of mtv ) and changes directions here a bit but still fails to make much of an impression . 
the look of the movie is as bland as the town and characters who populate it . 
the football scenes are generally unexciting and the entire film looks a bit washed out . 
there's an ok soundtrack featuring music from collective soul , foo fighters , green day and aaliyah but it's not as impressive as one would expect from a mtv film . 
susan granger's review of " america's sweethearts " ( columbia/sony ) 
what a waste of a talented cast ! 
billy crystal and co-writer peter tolan have concocted a sly , provocative premise and , as the opening credits roll , it's obvious that they're attempting an old-fashioned romantic comedy . 
the story involves a veteran publicist ( billy crystal ) who is summoned to orchestrate a press junket in las vegas when an arrogant director ( christopher walken ) holds a megabuck movie hostage in his editing room , refusing to show it to anyone . 
he figures that by giving the journalists juicy hints of a possible reconciliation between the film's once-married-but-now-estranged stars , gwen and eddie ( catherine zeta-jones , john cusack ) , they'll be so distracted that they won't remember they didn't see the movie or it wasn't what they expected . 
 ( and crystal thought of this long before a sony exec concocted the phony critic/david manning quote scandal ! ) 
for help , he turns to gwen's personal assistant/sister ( julia roberts ) . 
but the laughs are few and far-between . 
crystal's glib , cynical flack isn't wickedly funny enough with a few amusing one-liners . 
after six months under the care of a depak chopra-like guru ( alan arkin ) , cusack's character's too emotionally fragile , lacking the necessary charisma . 
zeta-jones's vain , narcissistic diva is undeveloped and one-dimensional . 
only hank azaria , as zeta-jones's much-macho spanish lover , and stanley tucci , as a studio exec , and roberts manage to whip up any farcical froth . 
basically , we don't like these ego-driven , stereotypical characters , let alone root for them to unwind their romantic entanglements , and joe roth's direction is predictable , formulaic and telegraphic . 
on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " america's sweethearts " is a contrived , shallow 4 . as a screwball satire , it's strictly superficial . 
susan granger's review of " jeepers creepers " ( mgm/ua entertainment ) 
this nasty , little horror film begins as a bickering brother ( justin long ) and sister ( gina philips ) are driving through the desolate countryside on their way home from college and spy a man dropping wrapped-up bodies down a drainage pipe . 
when long decides to investigate , there's nothing but trouble . 
 " you know the part in scary movies where somebody does something really stupid and everybody hates them for it ? 
- well , this is it ! " 
philips warns . 
what he finds in the basement of an old , abandoned church is a dying boy with a horrifying , jagged-stitched incision from his neck to his navel , plus hundreds of other mutilated bodies , stitched together on the walls and ceiling like a disgusting tapestry . 
long flees but now the monstrous , winged creeper ( jonathan breck ) is after both of them ! 
eileen brennan appears briefly as the cat lady and patricia belcher is jezelle , a psychic who explains the evil creature's bizarre feeding habits . 
on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " jeepers creepers " is a fiendishly visceral 2 with an extraordinarily gruesome conclusion , giving new meaning to the old song " jeepers creepers . " 
and now - as paul harvey would say - for the rest of the story . 
what's more scary than the cruelty of the satanic film itself is the fact that writer/director victor salva is a convicted child molester who videotaped himself having oral sex with a 12 year-old actor in california . 
sentenced to three years in prison , he served 15 months and completed parole in 1992 . 
when salva made " powder " ( 1995 ) , the story of an albino boy with supernatural abilities , disney studio executives claimed that they did not know about his prior conviction as a pedophile . 
and now , once again , in this mgm/ua film , that fact is conspicuously absent from his press kit bio . 
this independent film written and directed by eric bross has the look and feel of all those other troubled blue-collar youth films that have inundated the market in recent times . 
it is hard to tell what is independent about this film ; it might as well have been made in hollywood or on a home videocam . 
it is the debut film for the director , who tells his personal story about italians growing up with heavy new jersey accents and remaining tight with each other as they grow into young adults , a tale which could have been rewarding to see in the 1950s , where the mind-set of all the characters depicted is grounded , but to see it in the 1990s is a different story : it is old news . 
the love story between the simple girl waiting to get married and her luckless boyfriend turning nasty on her doesn't mean much , since their relationship remained undeveloped . 
the introduction of the wise-guy angle and the loyality among buddies bit , are not moving enough emotional experiences or intelligent enough dramatics to elevate this film above its limited story line despite the tour-de-force performance by the star of the film , adrien brody as ray . 
ray is the only son of a low-level mobster once arrested for running an illegal casino operation out of his bloomfield , new jersey , suburban basement . 
ray sr . ( vincent ) is now trying to make a go of it by running a small scale home-repair business . 
his son lives with him and works unhappily as a shoe salesman , dreaming of getting rich quickly so he can open a business and marry his long-time waitress girlfriend joanne ( sybil ) . 
the title of this film refers to the shoe size of paul newman-10b , which really has nothing to do with explaining anything about the film . you 
should be aware that there are a lot of things about this film that don't make sense : its constant brainless chatter between the buddies , their uneventful growing pains , and the despair of their lives , make it very difficult to feel any empathy for them . 
desperate to make his dream come through , ray goes to a loanshark , humorously and menacingly played by james e . moriarty , and borrows 10 grand to bet on a " sure thing " at freehold raceway . 
the horse loses and now ray has big problems , as the loanshark comes after him with his muscle to get his dough . 
there is nothing i have seen so far to like about ray . 
he is undependable , mean-spirited , and stupid . 
so when his best friend mike ( gallagher ) , the narrator of the film , gets a chance to sleep with his girlfriend--who cares ? 
the director must be kidding himself if he thinks we do . 
as for ray's gambling debt and his dilemma of how to pay it off , the story is too predictable for anything other than what you would expect to happen . 
his buddies , the college student mike and the dependable butchie ( gillan ) , and his old man , who he has this love/hate relationship with , rally to his aid . 
and the film ends on an obligatory artistic note of ambiguity , that seems to be the way it is for all those wannabe artistic films , as ray is off to florida all by his lonesome self to try to put his life together . 
there was just no energy or spark or anything relevant in this superficial film to keep it interesting , though adrien brody showed signs that he could be a future star . 
because of his intensity and looks , he reminds me of sean penn . 
come on hollywood , surprise me . 
stop giving us these poorly written thrillers with banal dialogue , sketchy characters and plots as predictable as the sunset . 
the always watchable morgan freeman plays a detective who becomes personally involved in a case involving missing girls . 
personal , because his niece is one of the victims . 
it's a slobbering psychopath , of course , but this time there's a twist . 
freeman notes that each of the young women who've disappeared are all strong willed , assertive , and more successful in their careers than the average girl . 
we soon learn that the guy calls himself casanova , whose aim is to " dominate " these modern gals by imprisoning them in some dungeon and keeping them as his personal harem . 
anyway , one of the women manages to escape ( ashly judd ) and teams up with freeman to . . . well , 
you know the rest . 
a brief glance at the plot to silence of the lambs , with which this film is constantly being compared to by the hype merchants , may suggest lambs also has a fairly predictable story . 
perhaps , but that film also has superbly drawn characters and smart dialogue . 
so lets not insult a great movie by taking the comparisons any further , okay ? 
and as for comparisons to seven . . . oh 
please ! 
kiss the girls is based on the novel by james patterson and written for the screen by one david klass . 
maybe the novel was a stinker to start with , but whatever the case , it's the writing that's clearly at fault here . 
one , these characters have very little to say that's engaging or interesting . 
two , the script has no sense of humour . 
three , while the notion of a psycho's victims being smart , successful women is an interesting twist , the execution isn't even half as good as the idea . 
thus , ashly judd comes across all out of focus , instead of being the heart of the story . 
we can't feel her rage . 
some atrociously written casual exchanges between her and several male characters are supposed to remind us that she's the no-bullshit 90's type , but these conversations barely register . 
and as for freeman , kiss the girls is his second dog in a year : first chain reaction , now this . 
for an actor of his calibre , this is most worrying . 
young director gary fleder scored a hit a few years back with his quirky pulp fiction-esque things to do in denver when your dead . 
but what can he do with material as resolutely mediocre as this ? 
not much , and you can hardly blame him . 
there's a few well-staged chase scenes through the forest where the camera whirls , dives and jumps , and the effect is startling . 
but the script is beyond rescue . 
what hurts most is that hollywood continues to get away with serving up this tripe , safe in the knowledge that jaded audiences will lap it up . 
complacency rules : it's been so long since we saw a mainstream american thriller that delivered juicy characters , real surprises and consistently sharp dialogue . 
the only consolation for this viewer is that my ticket to the movie was a freebie , positive proof that the best things in life aren't free . . . . 
 . 
capsule : the much anticipated re-adaptation of the pierre boulle novel comes to the screen as a dark and a little dreary film with lots of chases and fighting , but very little intelligence . 
visually there is much to like about this version , but the approach is to take an adventure after the style of gulliver's travels and treat it as an action film . 
that makes it a film without much center . 
 , 0 ( -4 to +4 ) 
pierre boulle , author of the bridge on the river kwai , wrote planet of the apes ( a . k . a . monkey planet ) , the novel , as a social satire . 
it reads a lot like a fifth book of gulliver's travels . 
humans discover a planet in which the roles of apes and humans have been reversed , not unlike the roles of horses and humans on jonathan swift's island of the houyhnhnms . 
the novel moves somewhat slowly to create some suspense in revealing all the things most film fans know to be true about the nature of the planet . 
it seems to me there is also a statement about human cruelty to animals , but perhaps i was just looking for that . 
when rod serling adapted the novel into a film released in 1968 , he added a number of serling touches , familiar from episodes of the twilight zone and changed the ending to make it more serling-ish . 
the final irony of the original version has become film history . 
without it there could never have been a " planet of the apes " film series . 
i can surmise only that serling ran into serious script problems in how to handle the tricky question of language . 
in the book the apes had their own language and the human eventually learned that language . 
that could have been done in the film , but that would have required the entire film to be subtitled for the non-ape-speaking . 
serling avoided this by having the apes speak english and , of course , there is some justification for that by the end of the film . 
justifying why the apes spoke english may have even been the inspiration for his surprise ending . 
but serling never tackles the all-important question of why a supposedly intelligent human never shows any curiosity or even surprise that the apes speak his own language , a language they had no opportunity to ever hear . 
few viewers questioned this serious plot hole , however , and the film has become well respected in cinema history . 
partial credit at least should go to jerry goldsmith whose extremely inventive score is one of goldsmith's best if not his best . 
when the film's success called for sequels , the filmmakers turned up the violence and they added well-intentioned , though not very subtle , political messages about what was happening in the united states of the 1960s and 1970s . 
while the first film had a little shooting of guns and what was there seemed a little half- hearted , by the second film , beneath the planet of the apes , there was a good deal more violence and from that point on the series had a lot of violence and chases . 
the series concluded with battle for the planet of the apes in 1973 . 
now director tim burton tries his hand at adapting the original book again . 
for those who thought that the 1968 version was not very faithful to the book , burton's new version is even less faithful . 
first , he does not really reverse the roles of the humans and the apes . 
he has them both be intelligent , articulate races battling for a dominance of the planet currently in the hands , uh , make that paws , of the apes . 
that could be a good story too , but it is not planet of the apes . 
as with the mission impossible films and so many other cinematic homages to the third quarter of the last century , the title makes promises that the filmmakers have no intention of honoring . 
in 2029 leo davidson ( mark wahlberg , not this world's most expressive actor ) works on a space station increasing the intelligence and usefulness of apes . 
then a convenient time storm sweeps him up wizard-of-oz-fashion and drops him on an alien planet . 
 ( yes , he survives this storm , but then no storm is perfect . ) 
he quickly finds , not greatly to any surprise he shows , that on this planet apes rule and humans drool , but everybody talks . 
and the language they talk is earth- english . 
apparently it does not even occur to leo that there is a mystery that needs to be explained about that . 
the fact it does not occur to leo and apparently didn't occur to tim burton either is the heart of the real horror of this film . 
both just assumed that if apes were going to talk the language they would speak would be english . 
in any case having one talking race dominating another makes this not a look at human-animal relationships and more one of the master-slave relationships . 
outside of sudan and a few other countries this is a less relevant topic . 
leo is captured to be used as a slave but also is discovered by ari , played by helena bonham carter . 
ari is an attractive ape with close ties to high political power . 
she is bent on making the world a better place . 
perhaps in a previous draft of the script she was called hil-ari . 
in any case with makeup that stifles her usual pout , carter is just about as attractive as she has ever been in a film . 
she may want to consider this to become her standard look from this point forward . 
it is not long before leo escapes with some human and only a couple of sympathetic apes . 
this is a further abandonment of the source material . 
the chase severely limits the interplay of ape and human and the examination of each's place in this reversed society , each important in the book . 
we cannot see how the society works because most of the screentime society has broken down . 
we see the humans either separated from the apes or fighting them . 
burton chooses visceral thrills over cerebral ones at almost every turn . 
this is a miscalculation , as characters so lacking in empathy value are difficult ones to place much emotional investment in . 
they are basically chess pieces and the viewer has little reason to root for them to win . 
the 1968 script had little subtlety , with lines like " i never met an ape i didn't like , " but at least we cared for what happened to taylor , the main character . 
most of what this film has to offer is in the visuals . 
the visual work is spotty but generally nicely done except that so much of the film takes place in the night or in fog . 
this tends to limit close looks at the makeup . 
in general it seems much improved from 1968 . 
the makeup team is led by rick baker instead of john chambers , who did it for the 1968 version . 
in 1968 chambers makeup was a jaw-dropper . 
it was realistic enough to almost be believable but flexible enough to show emotion . 
chambers is good , but if anyone had a chance to best him it would have to be baker . 
today audiences have higher expectations ; baker's visualization is really an improvement . 
these visuals work nicely . 
what does not work is the wire- assisted leaps some of the apes make . 
they look like they were inspired by the physics- defying leaps of crouching tiger , hidden dragon . 
apes spring incredible distances . 
some of the best scenes are apes running into battle looking like they have ape posture , but when they start flying through the air the effect is lost . 
one final visual problem is that the film frequently shows its budget in what should be spectacular battle scenes the camera shows us only a small group of people close-up . 
since the days of lon chaney and boris karloff few actors have crossed over to stardom in a role that required heavy make-up . 
the one actor who has a shot is paul giamatti . 
it is not that his lines are so good , most are silly jokes . 
but he delivers them very well . 
he was always a watchable actor , but has not yet made stardom . 
as the ape-trader limbo he over-emotes to overcome his ape make-up , but does it very well . 
in doing so he makes himself the most interesting thing on the screen . 
he is probably the best thing in the film and conjures up memories of peter ustinov's performance in spartacus . 
as an in-joke there are several lines in the script borrowed from the 1968 film and an old ape played by charleton heston becomes an allusion to the first film by itself . 
danny elfman's score has a nice primitive feel , but jerry goldsmith's 1968 tour de force score is a real classic . 
that score and the whole film will be remembered when the 2001 film is forgotten . 
i rate the remake 4 on the 0 to 10 scale and a 0 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
i wish i could accurately describe the theme music for part 3 . 
the best way i can put it is that it's funky . 
i know this is an odd question , but remember the opening music of " police academy 4 : citizens on patrol " , when steve guttenberg and michael winslow perform the title song " citizens on patrol " during the opening credits ? 
it's just like that . 
anyway , part 3 takes place a day after the events of part 2 ( so technically still 1985 ) . 
this time , a group of horny teens ( who also bring along two aging hippie potheads for some reason ) head up to a cabin on crystal lake for a weekend of sex and weed . 
it turns out that one of the teens had been attacked by jason earlier in her life ( which must have been between parts 1 and 2 ) so why she has returned to crystal lake one day after a new batch of murders is beyond me . 
she's the lone survivor this time . 
part 3 was originally shown in theaters in 3-d , and from what i can tell from the video , it looks as though they may have been fairly decent effects . 
jason had long , wild hair when he was unmasked in part 2 . now , one day later he's completely bald . 
also , it being one day later , it can't be friday the 13th now can it ? 
oh well . 
steve miner is the only director who helmed more than one film in the series . 
[r] 
jessica lange is one of the most inconsistent actresses working today . 
from time-to-time , she blows away audiences with powerful , intense performances . 
on the other hand , this is the same woman who made her jaw-droppingly awful feature debut in dino delaurentiis' king kong . 
and , much as lange would probably prefer movie-goers to develop amnesia regarding that particular entry on her resume , every once in a while she does work that is reminiscent of it , if only in quality . 
hush is one such example . 
lange is so bad here that she might have been fun to watch if the rest of the film wasn't such a prime example of motion picture tedium . 
the film opens , as many so-called " psychological thrillers " do , by posing as a light drama . 
we are introduced to jackson ( johnathon schaech , last encounter in tom hanks' that thing you do ! ) and helen ( gwyneth paltrow ) , a picture perfect young couple who are very much in love . 
jackson is taking helen home for the holidays so she can meet his mother , martha ( lange ) . 
the moment i first saw martha , i started looking for fangs . 
soon , the wicked witch of the east is plotting a way for her son to get helen pregnant ( this involves poking a hole in a diaphragm ) . 
once that goal is accomplished , she manipulates events so that the expecting couple moves out of new york city to the horse farm where she lives . 
as long as she gets her way , martha is a perfectly amicable person , but when helen defies her , it's a declaration of war . 
hush has three very simple problems : it's incredibly dumb , it's incredibly boring , and it's incredibly predictable ( at least up to the stupefying ending ) . 
this film has absolutely nothing to recommend it , with the exception of a couple of nice shots of snow-covered fields and a quick glimpse of gwyneth paltrow's bare buttocks . 
frankly , it's embarrassing to watch a respected actress of lange's stature give a performance like this -- it's like a bad blanche dubois ( the role she played in a 1995 tv version of a streetcar named desire ) . 
meanwhile , paltrow does her best to get through her dialogue without gaping at the stupidity of some of her lines , and schaech attempts a passable imitation of an inanimate object . 
as in all psychological thrillers , the battle lines are clearly drawn . 
here , it's mom and against wife , with jackson caught in the middle . 
of course , since schaech's character is poorly-developed and badly acted , it's impossible to say how he feels about being in that situation . 
maybe someone should ask him if he's familiar with oedipus . 
martha is , of course , the evil one . 
how do we know she's evil ? 
she smokes cigarettes and drinks hard liquor -- two sure signs that the devil is at work . 
on the other hand , helen is a good girl . 
the evidence for this is that she's nice to old ladies and treasures a locket with a picture of her dead parents . 
that's about it for character development . 
beyond that point , hush is just a series of increasingly hard-to-swallow coincidences , contrivances , and moronic plot twists . 
however , the first 85 minutes are just a warm-up for the ending , which is as anticlimactic as it is profoundly dissatisfying . 
i can't imagine anyone , no matter what they thought of the movie as a whole , liking this conclusion . 
either there was some serious last-minute editing or someone left out a few pages of the script . 
before the climax , i disliked hush ; by the time the end credits started , i hated it . 
viewers invest something in every movie they watch , no matter how good or bad it is . 
cheating them like this is offensive and unpardonable . 
most entries into this worn-out , worm-eaten genre aren't especially good . 
films like consenting adults , the hand that rocks the cradle , and single white female rely on stock plots and predictable twists to propel the narrative along . 
in general , however , they're directed with a degree of competence that assures a level of sustained tension . 
that's not the case with really bad thrillers like this , which fail to generate even a momentary heart palpitation -- the characters are too bland and the plot is too uninvolving for anyone in the audience to care . 
indeed , the title of this movie probably refers to what the producers hope viewers will do in lieu of telling their friends what they really think of this sorry piece of celluloid . 
synopsis : sonny koufax ( adam sandler ) is a rich , childish , angry man who has just been dumped by his girlfriend vanessa ( kristy swanson ) . 
in a bid to impress vanessa sonny impersonates his friend kevin ( jon stewart ) and adopts a 5 year old boy named julian ( cole and dylan sprouse ) while kevin is on an overseas trip . 
under sonny's supervision julian soon learns to lie to women , tell people how he " wipes his ass , " throw tantrums , and scream for his " god damned " treats . 
self centered , julian breaks a school classmate's arm without apologizing or even realizing he has done anything wrong . 
meanwhile sonny bribes julian with sugary talk , food , toys , and flashy promises in order to get the kid to perform . 
not surprisingly the government takes julian away from sonny's incompetent supervision , and this leads to a custody battle . 
opinion : it's a movie about an embittered creep teaching a little kid to be a jerk , and we all get cheap laughs because for 90 minutes the innocent kindergartner never finds out what it means when he mimics all the bad boy behavior . 
that's the essence of big daddy . 
but there's a bigger issue involved : marketing . 
movies that are rated pg and pg-13 are heavily marketed towards children of preteen age and below . 
on tv , film clips advertise these movies as family-friendly hit comedies . 
then when you go see them they turn out to be either raunchy sex acts like austin powers with characters named fat bastard - - or big daddy where adult characters get their jollies by buddying up to naive five year olds and encouraging them to experiment with drugs and mistreatment . 
folks in hollywood are trying to develop a preteen market for raunchy stuff , but i think most american parents would agree that early childhood is a time of mental innocence that should be protected from uncaring media market exploitation . 
to many american mothers there's probably nothing more pathetic and unsettling than the sight of a theater full of unsupervised little eight year olds laughing raucously as movie character father adam sandler jokes about a woman's " ice cold tits . " 
certainly no one would rent ed wood's glen or glenda ? 
expecting to see a good movie , but this screwy discourse about transvestitism betrays a level of incompetence that i didn't know was possible . 
in fact , wood's infamous plan 9 from outer space actually seems pretty tame by comparison . 
watching glen or glenda ? 
i found myself occasionally wondering if wood had originally made two or three separate movies and accidentally edited them together ; as a result , it is actually quite entertaining in that it is unintentionally hilarious . 
the movie starts out as what mostly seems like a bad documentary , with endless , repetitive narration about transvestites , how difficult it is for a transvestite to look at his girlfriend's clothes without being able to wear them , how transvestites are not necessarily homosexuals , and how the main character , glen/glenda is ( as it reminds us probably half a dozen times ) " not half man and half woman , but man and woman at the same time . " 
the camera work is terrible-occasionally the camera lingers on , say , a closed door while the characters talk off-screen , or inexplicably zooms in on someone's ear or nose . 
wood also makes copious use of mostly irrelevant stock footage , which leads to voiced-over non-sequiturs like , " yes , our world is a busy and frightening place , with so many people driving their automobiles . " 
finally , there is occasional commentary from bela lugosi as a sort of omniscient being who seems to inhabit a frankenstein-style laboratory , delivering pointless lines such as , " people . 
 . 
 . 
all with their own thoughts . 
 . 
 . 
their own ideas . 
 . 
 . 
 . " 
while lightning crackles quasi-ominously overhead . 
had wood continued in this vein , glen or glenda ? 
probably would have been remembered as nothing more than a poorly done documentary with the occasional inappropriate horror-movie touch . 
unfortunately , he then wanders so far off into left field that you have to wonder if he had been eating some funny mushrooms when he wrote the script . 
 " pull the string ! 
pull the string ! " 
announces an alarmed lugosi as stock footage of buffalo appears . 
there is another crash of lightning before lugosi returns , this time warning us , " beware . 
 . 
 . 
beware the big green dragon that lurks outside your door ! 
 . 
 . 
 . 
it eats little boys . 
 . 
 . 
and puppy dogs' tails . 
 . 
 . 
and big fat snails ! " 
a bizarre nightmare sequence , which is probably meant to be symbolic but instead is just incredibly stupid , ensues , during which glen/glenda finds his fiance trapped under a fallen tree-in the living room . 
someone who is apparently intended to be the sinister " green dragon " ( but looks more like a klingon from the original star trek series ) appears to be orchestrating all this , though the film is far from clear on this point ( to put it kindly ) . 
near the end of this scene-and here i must confess that wood lost me completely-is a violent sexual encounter on a couch that features two characters who do not even appear in the rest of the movie and is scored by goofily upbeat folk music . 
after this scene ends ( not a moment too soon ) , glen or glenda ? 
returns to its documentary style , but at that point any lingering sense that wood had the slightest idea what he was doing is pretty much gone . 
the film wanders to a dumb happy ending that also seems to abandon much of what it was trying to say about transvestitism , but at that point it didn't matter much what happened . 
as soon as the aforementioned sex scene was over , glen or glenda ? 
had pretty much cemented its place in my mind as the most incoherent film i had ever seen . 
i honestly think that if i picked up my camcorder and deliberately tried to make the worst movie i possibly could , it still might not match glen or glenda ? 
for sheer cinematic disaster . 
i am giving this movie an f , but i'm not sure that quite does it justice . 
the second serial-killer thriller of the month is just awful . 
oh , it starts deceptively okay , with a handful of intriguing characters and some solid location work . 
after a baby-sitter gets gutted in the suit- ably spooky someone's-in-the-house prologue , parallel stories unfold , the first involving a texas sheriff ( r . lee emery ) , a gruesome double murder , and the arrival of a morose fbi agent ( dennis quaid ) on the eve of voting for the local lawman's reelection . 
the second pairs a hitch- hiker ( jared leto ) with a friendly former railroad worker ( danny glover ) . 
they're headed west , toward the rockies and away from the murder scene . 
which one is the killer ? 
well , it doesn't really matter , 'cause when writer/first-time director jeb stuart ( die hard ) finally spills the beans , you won't take his choice seriously anyway . 
the whole thing goes south about an hour in , with the tale taking hairpin turns that i certainly couldn't follow . 
and through the whole thing there's quaid , playing with the most intense monotony this side of steven sea- gal . 
i guess i'm glad that i didn't walk out-- there's some nice train stuff at the end and a fun nod to dr . 
strangelove . 
this is my first review that i post to this newsgroup , and i kind of feel like i have to say something negative about this film . 
no one else seems to care that it takes certain liberties that should not be taken with a historical story . 
however , even if one thinks of it as fiction , " the prince of egypt " remains shallow . 
but i'll begin from the beginning . 
the biggest difference between the original , biblical story and this version is that moses has some semblance of divinity in the bible , whereas the animated version gives the impression of a reluctant hero . 
maybe it's just me , but if i knew i had god on my side , i'd have a little bit more confidence . 
there are other differences as well , such as a lack of important female characters and the passing over of the original pharoah's death like it's nothing but a thing . 
most of all , though , the story's focus has shifted . 
rather than being a story about father-son , man-ethnicity , man-god , " the prince of egypt " is almost solely about the brother-brother relationship between rameses and moses . 
i was originally excited about this story element until i saw the movie , where it came off as maudlin . 
rameses and moses squabble like children and then , in the interests of peace , moses saves rameses' butt , even though moses was the one who started it . . . 
 * yawn * i didn't care anymore by the time moses ran off for murdering an overseer ( which , of course , never happened in the original story - moses was exiled ) . 
but enough about the differences . 
let's talk about the movie itself . 
it features a moses who , in the interests of making the character more human , lacks any divinity whatsoever , which isn't convincing at all to anyone who knows who god is . 
it features a cookie-cutter " i-wanna-please-dada " rameses , who at least is given dignity by the voicework of ralph fiennes ( from schindler's list , among other things ) . 
the film also features an extremely annoying character by way of the " new-improved " miriam , voiced by the ever-antsy sandra bullock , even though the most irritating thing about her is her tendency to burst into song for no apparent reason ( here bullock is replaced by a singing voice ) . 
speaking of which , it contains * very * annoying music . 
it contains shallow writing . 
it features extraordinary animation , which is one good thing i can say about this film . 
most of all , it contains an attempt to commercialize , homogenize , and mass-market a story about a manifestation of god . 
i am not christian , but i got the impression of blasphemy . 
the writers and producers took a butcher knife and chop-chopped into the story . 
for " original sin , " the road to the screen has been rocky . 
initially slated for release last november , the film was bumped twice , finally landing in the dog days of summer 2001 . 
advance screenings of the film were denied to all but a few critics , generally a sign that the studio realizes it has a dud on its hands . 
so is " original sin " really all that bad ? 
yes it is , but the melodrama does offer some rewards . 
the location settings are gorgeous and there is a healthy sprinkling of t&a ( with angelina jolie providing the " t " and antonio banderas the " a " ) . 
more importantly , the movie is entertainingly bad . 
veteran readers know that , as a rule , i don't encourage people to patronize lousy films . 
most of the time , there are plenty of quality offerings on the marketplace that are more deserving of our money and besides , the " let's go laugh at the failings of others " mindset reflects an elitism that makes me uncomfortable . 
but things are different this summer . 
quality films , to put it mildly , have been few and far between , so as far as i'm concerned , it's fair to find our kicks where we may . 
 " original sin " will never join such treasures as " valley of the dolls , " " road house " and " showgirls " in the bad movie hall of fame , but it'll do until something worse comes along . 
the film , adapted by director michael cristofer from the cornell woolrich novel , " waltz into darkness " ( which was also the source for the 1969 francois truffaut film , " mississippi mermaid " ) , opens in a turn-of-the-century prison , as jolie's character , slated for a dawn execution , tells her lurid tale to a priest who appears desperately horny . 
the freshman writing class tone is quickly established when she says things like , " this is not a love story , it is a story about love . " 
wary of local gold-diggers , cuban coffee dealer luis antonio vargas ( banderas ) makes arrangements to secure a mail order bride from america , listing himself as a mere clerk to dissuade foreign gold-diggers . 
a practical man , luis chooses a frumpy looking lady , hoping she will be a loyal mate able to provide him with children . 
imagine his surprise when his fianc ? e , julia russell ( jolie ) , turns out to be infinitely more attractive than the woman in the photo . 
julia explains that she sent a different woman's image because she didn't want to be selected solely for her pretty face . 
luis then confesses his deception , leading julie to state , with great significance , " we have something in common , we are both not to trusted . " 
after their wedding , luis and julia retire for a glorious night of carefully choreographed lovemaking , with their bodies positioned to display her breasts and his bottom as erotically as possible . 
jolie and banderas are attractive people and watching them naked is fun , although the filmmakers' insistence on using one of banderas' legs to cover jolie's crotch makes it look like he's trying to climb her . 
luis , the stupidest man who ever lived , immediately instructs the bank to make his personal and business accounts available to julia , despite the fact that she seems nothing like the woman with whom he corresponded . 
his blissful ignorance continues as the warning signs mount up . 
luis must force julia to write to her sister emily , who is frantic over her lack of communication . 
shortly after julia complains about the chirping of a pet bird , it is found on the floor of its cage with a broken neck . 
finally , when she cleans out his accounts and disappears , luis begins to suspect that something might be wrong . 
incidentally , if you're afraid i'm giving too much away , rest assured that all of this happens in the first 30 minutes of the movie , leaving plenty of time for numerous dopey plot twists , a great deal of operatic acting and more footage of her tits and his ass . 
along the way , private detective walter downs ( played by thomas jane , who was terrific as mickey mantle in the hbo movie " 61 * " ) turns up , hired by the frumpy woman's sister to find out what happened to the real julia . 
luis is also eager for the detective to track down the con artist , having decided that if he can't have her , he will kill her . 
oh , the pathos of it all . 
the cast appears to recognize the trashiness of the story , adjusting their performances accordingly . 
banderas is suitably impassioned , while jolie alternates between vamping and pouting ( and with those lips , she can really pout ) . 
as for thomas jane , he starts off acting suspicious and cagey , then accelerates to a snidely whiplash level of nastiness . 
his most startling moment comes when , to prove his power to humiliate , he forces luis against a wall , verbally taunts him while rubbing his cheeks against those of luis and then finishes establishing his dominance with a full-on kiss . 
if anyone ever questions the difference between sex and rape , show them this chilling scene . 
and if anyone ever questions the difference between real drama and a laughable potboiler , show them " original sin . " 
one would think that david duchovny , star of the cult favorite " x-files " would be very careful in choosing his leading man cinema roles . 
at least one would hope so . 
one would be seriously incorrect . 
eugene sands ( duchovny ) is a surgeon so dedicated to his craft that he becomes addicted to amphetamines to stay awake and work more . 
it turns out to be a bad plan when he loses a patient and his license while under the influence . 
ten months later , in a seedy bar to score synthetic heroin , the doctor gets a chance to ply his trade when assassins gun down a customer . 
using a plastic water bottle and bar tubing , sands operates and saves his life . 
smalltime hoodlum raymond blossom ( timothy hutton ) is impressed with the cutlery skills on his associate . 
he kidnaps and then offers down-and-out eugene a position in his organization . 
blossom needs a doctor to patch up gunshot victims that would be problematic at a hospital . 
sand's temptation is that this will give him a chance to practice medicine again albeit illegally , big chunks of cash to fuel his habit and close proximity to the gangster's womanfriend claire ( angelina jolie ) , this film's babe factor . 
the would-be big time operator is desperately in need of help . 
on the run from russian mobsters ( the bad guys that seem to be all the rage in this year's films ) and trying to cut a pirate software deal with the chinese mafia , blossom is surrounded by blood . 
after a few medical misadventures , the physician grows disenchanted with his employment . 
an encounter with a couple of psycho surfer dudes who threaten to blow him away unless he " fixes " their dead buddy cements his feeling that he is in the wrong line of work . 
when the fbi visits and forces him to become an informant , there is no question that he needs to be somewhere else . 
oddly enough , these seem like they could be exciting scenes . 
the film disproves that assumption . 
then a bunch of other uninteresting things happen . 
writing this only two days after seeing the film , its a struggle to remember the events . 
you can take that as a solid lack of recommendation . 
for all the coolness that duchovny exhibits in " x-files " , it's a surprise that his big screen presence is so lacking in charisma . 
the doctor is particularly bland and dull . 
even the cold turkey bit which is rife with dramatic possibilities come across as banal . 
a little chocolate and minor sweats get him through heroin withdrawal . 
like virtually everything else in the film , it's a missed opportunity . 
the fox mulder detachment doesn't work here . 
oscar-winner hutton's manic mobster is much more difficult to get a handle on . 
played partially for comedy and partially as crazed killer , blossom almost becomes real , but then sinks into goofiness . 
most of the time hutton looks as if he's searching for his character and coming up empty . 
jolie also makes a few false moves towards creating a three-dimensional human being before giving up and turning into scenery . 
the most interesting aspect of her performance is watching her pouty lips threaten to take over the screen . 
the rest aren't any better . 
michael massee's eccentric fbi agent never revs up . 
one of blossom's henchmen steals a few moments of the show as a quirky gunman reminiscent of val kilmer's doc holliday in " tombstone " . 
his two-gunned blasting as he does a bizarre dance is the high point of the film . 
but that 15 seconds isn't worth sitting through the other 90 minutes . 
first time film director andy wilson ( known for his work on the british television series " cracker " ) appears to be attempting to jump on the " pulp fiction " bandwagon . 
the best of these movies combine a sense of style and flash with significant substance . 
the second-rate ones concentrate on just one of these aspects . 
 " playing god " does neither well . 
the basic idea of the film is solid . 
and then it goes nowhere . 
even worse , it plods back and forth , up and down a long and winding road before it ends up nowhere . 
fox fails yet again in his search for intelligent life . 
 " i would appreciate it if you didn't do that again . " 
starring jet li , bridget fonda , tch ? ky karyo , burt kwouk . 
directed by chris nahon . 
rated r . 
it's no secret that martial arts film often use their plot simply to get from one action sequence to another . 
when the fight scenes are enough to justify paying admission , there is no problem with this , as in most jackie chan projects and a lot of the hong kong actioners . 
when they aren't , well , we're in bad shape . 
kiss of the dragon , jet li's second consecutive american misfire , plays like one big miscalculation , and fails even as the most rudimentary entertainment . 
now before i start getting e-mails angrily touting the genius of jet li , let me explain myself . 
li is as spectacular as ever here , and i don't think anyone would ever dare call his martial-arts-star skills into question . 
the problem isn't with him , it's with the movie's tone . 
the much touted fight-scenes here are filmed with such unflinching , unrelenting brutality that they are unpleasant to watch . 
they're joyless , perfuctory ; li's rogue chinese detective is more of a killing machine than a hero , a terminator with a black belt instead of a metal skeleton . 
but even the terminator in judgement day had a sympathetic side . 
the plot isn't relevant , but if you're curious , it's some nonsense about a chinese law enforcement officer ( li ) sent to paris to investigate a possible drug ring and encounter a corrupt chief of police ( tcheky karyo ) , who kills people and does sinister things with no motivation whatsoever . 
oh yeah , and li's character is also an acupuncture expert who is able to ease pain and/or kill at the touch of a needle . 
 " kiss of the dragon " is the name of an acupuncture maneuver , in which you stick a needle in a precise location on the back of the victim's neck , somehow redirecting all of the body's bloodflow to the brain and killing the poor sap more or less immediately . 
there's a vague attempt to humanize li by having him fall in love with a downtrodden prostitute , whose daughter is being held hostage , for some reason , by the villain . 
this is one of the worst love stories i have ever seen on screen , even worse than the one in pearl harbor . 
there's no conviction whatsoever as the movie barely pays lip service to it ; it's only here because someone apparently thought there should be some kind of boy-meets-girl subplot . 
kiss of the dragon was written by luc besson , whose screenplay the messenger : the story of joan of arc , for all of that film's flaws , was at least thoughtful . 
i don't know why the guy got himself involved in this train wreck , but perhaps he wanted to so something more mainstream after the neverending weirdness of the fifth element and the aforementioned stylized biopic . 
i suppose you could call this mainstream , but i'll choose the bizarre any time of the day . 
if action scenes in a movie are going to be brutal instead of dazzling , you need a story to justify watching them . 
the filmmakers behind kiss of the dragon should have rethought their strategy . 
no one will walk out of this misbegotten project smiling , but i hear rush hour 2 is coming in just a few weeks . 
the rich legacy of cinema has left us with certain indelible images . 
the tinkling christmas tree bell in " it's a wonderful life . " 
bogie's speech at the airport in " casablanca . " 
little elliott's flying bicycle , silhouetted by the moon in " e . t . " 
and now , " starship troopers " director paul verhoeven adds one more image that will live in our memories forever : doogie houser doing a vulcan mind meld with a giant slug . 
 " starship troopers , " loosely based on the robert heinlein novel , is the story of an interstellar war between humans and giant insects . 
in the hands of verhoeven , the mammoth sci-fi battle flick is one of the most astonishingly bad films ever made , a monument to inept filmmaking on a colossal scale . 
to put it simply , it's a bug bomb . 
in " robocop " and " total recall , " verhoeven displayed a gift for creating an entertaining mix of violence , special effects and social satire , and " starship troopers " starts off in similar fashion , with a tongue-in-cheek futuristic military recruitment ad that shows promise . 
things go downhill fast , though , as we meet our heroes , a group of buenos aires teens preparing to graduate from high school . 
inexplicably , johnny rico , carmen ibenez , dizzy flores and xander barcalow are played by square-jawed anglo kids who look like they just stepped out of a mountain dew commercial . 
it's a veritable " alpha centuri 90210 " as we watch the love-smitten teens squabble in the name of love . 
michael ironside plays their teacher , who waves around a cheesy fake severed arm while lecturing about civic responsibilities . 
eventually , the kids join the military , with dreams of glory in their addled little minds . 
one of their classmates , carl jenkins ( " doogie houser's " neil patrick harris , ) snags a job in military intelligence because of his strong psychic abilities . 
he displays his gift by psychically ordering a pet ferret to crawl up his mother's leg . 
a long , dull boot camp sequence follows , enlivened only by an extended coed shower scene where the recruits swap snappy banter as the " showgirls " director's camera roams over their buff bodies . 
finally , a full hour into the film , the war finally starts and we meet the enemy . 
the bugs hail from klendathu and colonize planets by hurling their spores into space . 
they attack starships by spinning around and firing deadly plasma blasts from their rears . 
yes , incredible as it seems , the bugs actually kill with cosmic farts . 
a phenomenally large amount of money was spent creating the computer animated insects and the results are mixed at best . 
sweeping distant shots depicting hordes of giant bugs racing to attack are both impressive and scary , but the close-ups are a different matter . 
the insects have an odd , artificial look , like origami creations with a mottled plastic coating . 
the attack scenes are intensely violent , as one would expect from verhoeven , but the overall look is too phony to generate any real tension . 
while the action is frantic , the military strategy , wildly illogical even by hollywood standards , grows tiresome quickly . 
verhoeven tries to spice things up by throwing in more satiric news coverage , but the faux-jingoistic scenes of children " doing their part for the war effort " by squishing roaches on a sidewalk aren't enough to make up for the long stretches of sheer dreck . 
one can only guess what paul verhoeven was trying to do here . 
his customary one part satire , two parts ultra-violence formula is way out of whack , and most of the film just flounders . 
in " showgirls " fashion , some scenes are almost bad enough to be good . 
an intergalactic kegger party , with jake busey playing " dixie " on a green plexiglas fiddle , has a certain bizarre appeal . 
a sex scene between two of the teens achieves a smarmy charm , enhanced a few minutes later when the female receives a fatal jab from a bug , but tells her hero that she doesn't mind dying . 
 " it's okay , " she gasps , " i got to have you ! " 
and then , of course , there's doogie's mind meld with a bug . 
it's possible that verhoeven was attempting to create an homage to the era of the original novel . 
heinlein's pre- " stranger in a strange land " books were aimed at adolescent males , and " starship troopers " has the antiseptic retro-future look of late 50s/early 60s sci-fi . 
the one cityscape shown is a jetsons-like gleaming metropolis , with flying cars whizzing past an obvious matte painting . 
the hairstyles are retro too , straight from the frankie avalon , annette funicello school of fashion . 
ultimately , verhoeven's motives are irrelevant . 
he has produce a gargantuan film that fails as an action film or as a social satire . 
it even fails to be an entertaining bad movie . 
avoid " starship troopers " at all costs . 
tim robbins and martin lawernce team up in this road movie comedy . 
robbins plays an exec who discovers his wife having sex with his boss . 
he goes into depression , and drives around his neighbourhood until he arrives inside the usual 'ghetto' side of every american city . 
there , lawernce attempts to steal his car , but to no avail , and is dragged along with robbin's on a trip to arizona . 
there , they hold up a store , are mistaken for two other robbers ( just like in my cousin vinny ) and are chased by the police , and the other robbers . 
of course , there's gags along the way , usually from lawernce . 
although the film is midly funny , and quite watchable , there's something so horribly familiar about it all . 
this film should really be called beverly hills midnight run there's lawernce with his wisecracking and heavy profanity , just like eddie murphy in beverly hills cop , and pratically the same idea as midnight run . 
it's full of all the road movie cliches , and even has a 'comedy' car chase , which just seemed so eighties . 
even the credit sequence seemed to be out of a steve martin , or chevy chase , eighties comedy . 
there also isn't much chemistry between robbins and lawernce . 
in planes , trains and automobiles , there was real chemistry between steve martin and john candy . 
in nothing to lose , there is hardly chemistry at all . 
towards the end the chemistry seems to work , but for the bulk of the film , there is hardly any , 
the director directs the film in a workman like fashion , but gets the jokes across . 
and although there is no chemistry between the two leads , they give good performances on their own . 
lawerence gives a good eddie murphy performance , and robbin's is alright aswell . 
however , robbin's performance is nowhere near as good as the characters he played in jacob's ladder , and the player . 
in fact , if you want to see robbin's do comedy much better than in nothing to lose , i suggest you rent out the hudsucker proxy , where he is much funnier . 
nothing to lose does have some funny moments in it , however . 
the humour isn't particulary sophisticated , but if you enojyed dumb & dumber , you might enjoy this . 
the characters in arizona are funny , and there's also a good scene where robbin's asks a shopkeeper which 'threatening approach' was better , lawerences ( which consisted of lawerence threatening to shoot the shopkeeper's ass , and swearing a lot ) , or himselfs , ( which was speaking in a deep , scary voice ) but the gags are predictable , the lack of chemistry infurating , and the ending too far-fetched and 'perfect' 
nothing to lose then , is robbin's first 'bad' movie ( and hopefully his last ) , and suggests that odereick should twice before making another film . 
he nearly ruined carrey's career with ace ventura : when nature calls , let's hope he hasn't ruined robbin's ( or even lawerence's ) with nothing to lose . 
capsule : not as bad a sequel as crow 2 or batman & robin , but still horribly putrid , cheesy and ill-conceived . 
this one belongs in saturday morning cartoons . . . 
extended review : you know , about halfway through this movie , i realized that if you hacked out everything except the fight scenes , you'd have a damn fine 35 minutes or so of flashy , hong kong style martial arts . 
beautifully choreographed by robin shou , who also plays liu kang , the fight scenes are both mind-blowing and graceful , acrobatic enough to make olympic gymnasts weep . 
this is what made the original so fun , but unfortunately for the sequel , we are without the frenetic directorial style of paul anderson . 
instead , they got john r . leonetti , the cinematographer for the original mortal kombat . 
not a good choice . 
while the fight scenes are brutal and eye-popping , the rest of the movie looks like standard made for tv fare . 
the acting is sub-par , which i could endure if it were not for a . ) the director's style , b . ) the special effects , & c . ) the treatment of the story and characters . 
a . ) mr . leonetti should go back to lighting , in my opinion . 
i could say dozens of bad things about him : he way overuses slow-motion , he has no eye for action , he can't get even mediocre performances out of actors , and so on . 
but by far his worst move was the way he treated jumping . 
apparantly , everybody can now fly . 
hell , i'm all for the occaisional gravity defying flip kick and whatnot , but not when it happens every few minutes , and is done so poorly . 
better jumping and acrobatics has been seen in xena : warrior princess . 
in short , they should have gotten paul anderson back . 
or at least let robin shou direct . . . 
b . ) unlike the first one , whose sfx were vibrant and somewhat realistic , mk : a's special effects are bland , fake looking , and overall just plain bad . 
i counted at least half a dozen times that blue-screening was painfully obvious . 
had this movie been made in the 80's , it would have been ground-breaking . 
but in today's industry , it doesn't even look finished . 
c . ) now for the _really_ bad parts . 
i admit , i'm an avid fan of the mortal kombat series . 
the games are amusing diversions , an easy way to work off stress and anger . 
the first movie was a mindlessly fun thrillride . 
this could have been a really cool movie . 
it isn't . 
the writers apparantly deemed it necessary to lower the target audience from teens to preschoolers . 
some of the plot elements are just plain stupid . 
how stupid ? 
take , for instance , how our heroes move around . 
they use giants spheres the roll around underground , supposedly at thousands of miles per hour . . . oh 
boy . . . 
even worse is the treatment of secondary characters . 
blink and you'll miss 'em . 
most characters had more depth in the video games . 
if you thought batman & robin was bad about this , you ain't seen nothin' yet . 
a good 75% of the characters are introduced , kick somebody around a bit , then either die or are forgotten about . 
there's no explanation at all for this . 
and for the final blasphemy , the fight that all the fans were waiting rabidly for , the fight hyped to be the most intricate of the movie , lasted about 3 minutes and then just sort of . . . ended . 
it almost made me weep . 
to sum it all up , rent it on video , and fast-forward through everything except the fight scenes . 
in " the astronaut's wife , " charlize theron plays a young woman with a nervous demeanor , pixie-hairdo and demon spawn unwittingly growing in her belly . 
if only her name wasn't jillian , the makers of this embarrassing bit of sci-fi shlock could have come up with a far more appropriate title : " rosemary's species . " 
what a shame it is to see such a gifted actress as theron - oscar-worthy in " the devil's advocate " - struggle with the lamest rip-off of a screendom classic in recent memory . 
ok , maybe " the astronaut's wife " deviates from " rosemary's baby " turf for its set-up , which finds our heroine terrorized not by satan's minions but her possessed husband ( johnny depp ) , a shuttle pilot whose mission mishap leaves him , um , a changed man . 
predictably , he and the missus get it on in a sequence best described as unpleasant , his evil seed impregnating her with twins and realizing that great " bowfinger " line about " alien love . " 
theron's " advocate " character faced a similar dilemma , the horror there resonating strongly . 
 " astronaut " provides only artificial anxiety . 
last year's equally noodle-headed " species ii " spun a similar premise about the breeding habits of an extraterrestrial on earth , but at least that movie more or less knew it was garbage . 
 " the astronaut's wife " is grave and humor-free , passing its increasingly silly story off as full-fledged serious , right down to an ambiguous finale that isn't even going to satisfy those who've stayed with it thus far . 
here's a hint : it involves lots of water , electrical equipment , a special effect from " the abyss " and the tots who doubled up as adam sandler's co-star in " big daddy . " 
draw your own conclusions . 
director/writer rand ravich coats the proceedings in dynamic sights masterminded by legendary " e . t . " 
cinematographer allen daviau , but too often favors the film's visual presentation over the story he's trying to tell . 
this bodes horribly for each dramatic development , like the surfacing of a suspicious nasa official ( " speed " 's joe morton ) to instigate jill's slow and stupid comprehension of the truth . 
his hyper-erratic behavior is probably supposed to give wife a paranoid edge . 
instead , he adds to the phoniness . 
theron and depp are certainly beyond this junk and will get other chances to prove themselves this fall - she as part of an imposing ensemble case in the john irving adaptation " cider house rules , " he in the lead of tim burton's eagerly-awaited " sleepy hollow . " 
undeserving of such talent , " the astronaut's wife " manages to be derivative , dull and uninvolving despite its seemingly ripe potential for unintentional laughs . 
in space , no one can hear you scream . 
but in a movie theatre , everyone can hear you snore . 
for a good ten years or so , super cool chow yun fat has enjoyed god hood status in the hong kong action scene . 
now , he has followed in the footsteps of director john woo , ( who launched chow's super stardom in the acclaimed 'a better tomorrow' ) by moving to hollywood . 
i had some reservations about this move and it would seem i was right to have them . 
chow plays a hitman who is doing jobs in order to repay a debt . 
his final job requires him to kill a policeman's seven year old boy . 
this he refuses do and runs . 
however , he is forced into a violent confrontation when his family are threatned and replacement killers are brought in to do the job . 
cue around 80 minutes of various and quite frankly tedious shoot- outs which take place in various locations . 
some thought had gone into making them a bit different but unfortunately they end up being just plain boring . 
the car wash scene , i found myself laughing at how stupid it looked . 
tut tut . 
the emphasis during the constant action seemed to be on the accompanying music , ( i could have sworn one piece was ripped out of a bruckheimer movie ) and not on the content . 
mia sorvino ( a passport forger ) is dragged into the affay and also provides a lame love interest as well as being rather handy with a gun . 
director antoine arqua has clearly not observed chow's excellent acting capabilties and simply requires him to mutter a few lines of broken english and look flash as he stands and shoots . 
chow's trademark of twin pistol shooting is saved for the finale ( which in fairness is quite good ) and there's not even a toothpick in site . 
and as for making chow shoot like a cop , well that's damned unforgiveable . 
to round up , the replacement killers is a pretty darned lame first outing for chow . 
it would appear he has left asia for a 90 minute pop video . 
this is not what we wanted at all , considering john woo was the exec producer . 
 ( did he have no say so at all ? ) 
watch 'the killer' again and weep at the difference . 
review by chris hill . 
 " there's room at the top , they are telling you still , but first you must learn how to smile as you kill , if you want to be like the folks on the hill . " 
libby parsons ( ashley judd ) has the perfect little life -- a rich husband , a cute son , and a house on the ocean -- but when her husband nick ( bruce greenwood ) takes her sailing , she awakes to find him gone and her hands covered with blood . 
just as she makes it to the deck and picks up the bloody knife lying there , the coast guard arrives in response to a distress call her vanished husband sent . 
she's convicted of his murder , of course , and leaves her son matty ( benjamin weir ) with her best friend ( annabeth gish ) . 
time passes , and the friend disappears with matty . 
during their last phone conversation libby hears matty yell " daddy ! " 
and realizes that her husband is still alive . 
libby serves six years , growing harder and driven by the desire to kill nick ( based on the theory that because of the " double jeopardy " amendment she can off him with impunity ) . 
when she gets parole , she's sent to a halfway house run by travis lehman ( tommy lee jones ) , a former law professor who ruined his life with a drunk driving accident . 
after a little breaking and entering and some destruction of property , libby jumps parole and lams it across the country looking for nick and matty . 
travis pursues , naturally . 
 " double jeopardy " is a watered-down version of " the fugitive , " with jones sleep-walking through his well-worn pursuer persona . 
although libby never leaps from a bus that collides with a train , she manages to get into a few nail-biters -- chased down the beach by a jeep , chained to a car that plunges into the ocean , sealed in a coffin -- that add some much needed thrills to an anemic , slow-moving script . 
character development is thin . 
travis' intriguing backstory is mentioned a couple times but has no effect on the story . 
 ( i think they only made him a former law professor so that he could verify the double-jeopardy theory when libby gets the drop on nick . 
it's a long way to go for one line ) . 
there's considerable sexual tension between travis and libby ( hey , there's something " the fugitive " didn't have ! ) , but it never goes anywhere . 
libby is a tv-movie everywoman , but judd's intense performance draws us in and makes us forget that her character has no distinguishing characteristics . 
this is judd's most prominent role to date , and she proves that she can light up the screen . 
let's hope hollywood gives her more to work with next time around . 
the quality of director bruce beresford's movies seems to depend on luck . 
when he has a good script and a strong cast , he turns out oscar-caliber work like " 'breaker' morant , " " driving miss daisy , " and " tender mercies . " 
when he doesn't . 
 . 
 . 
we get " double jeopardy . " 
screenwriters david weisberg and douglas cook previously collaborated on " the rock , " a script which probably benefited from the numerous uncredited rewrites . 
bottom line : ashley judd tries hard but can't save this predictable bore . 
as far as " mystery men " is concerned , the burning question is less " is it really as bad as it looks from the trailer ? " 
 ( the answer there is an unequivocal " yes " ) and more " how in the name of sweet jesus did first-time director kinka usher get such a first-rate cast to act in this muck ? " 
 " mystery men " features greg kinnear as the heavily-sponsored captain amazing and geoffrey rush as his arch nemesis ( singular ) casanova frankenstein . 
a veritable police lineup of hot hollywood talent plays the superhero wannabes of the title , who join forces to get c . amazing out of a tight spot when c . frankenstein puts the screws on champion city . 
there's william h . macy as the mild-mannered shoveler , hank azaria as the cutlery-flinging blue raja ( no knives , but a phony english accent that's just as sharp ) , ben stiller as mr . furious ( whose only power seems to be his ability to get hot under the collar ) , janeane garofalo as a crazed bowler with her father's skull interestingly preserved , wes studi as a rhetoric-spouting cowled avenger , and kel mitchell as the token ( and , adding insult to injury , invisible ! ) 
black guy . 
bringing up the rear , so to speak , is paul reubens ( yes , that's pee wee herman paul reubens ) as . . . 
well , let's just call him the gas man . 
the production design is overblown , the special effects are overdone , and the script ( based on bob burden's " dark horse " comic book series ) is overbaked . 
the appealing actors are uniformly good and stiller is even stellar , but they can't begin to save " mystery men " --it's just one big mess . 
you're better off renting the video and pressing fast-forward to get to the funny bits . 
i believe i counted three . 
the swirling sick feeling hit me just a few minutes into " heartbreakers . " 
ray liotta's character was making out with his secretary when his new wife knocked on the door of his office . 
while scrambling to collect himself , he frantically shouted to her , " just wait a sex ? er , i mean sec ! " 
i was struck by a wave of revulsion , thinking , " geez , didn't lines like that die when 'three's company' was canceled ? " 
over the next few minutes , as the barely double entendres and lingering cleavage shots grew more numerous , i realized that the mindset behind " heartbreakers " predated " three's company . " 
suddenly , i had an out-of-body experience as my internal way-back machine swept me to the mid-1960s . 
all across america , the counter-culture was growing like wildfire , but there was scant evidence of it on tv . 
while young people were challenging traditional values on the streets , frustrated teenagers like me were stuck at home , sulking while our parents enjoyed the latest bob hope special . 
women in skimpy bathing suits would prance onscreen while hope made growling noises and leered at their breasts . 
on another channel , dean martin made wisecracks about " booze and broads " and peter lawford , decked out in love beads and a nehru jacket , purred suggestive one-liners as he ogled the go-go dancers . 
the adults laughed and laughed . 
 " heartbreakers " reeks of that stagnant mentality , from its lingering shots of jennifer love hewitt's vah-vah-voom breasts to its leaden screenplay , which paints women as haughty schemers and men as drooling buffoons too sex-obsessed to realize they are being manipulated . 
in addition to liotta and hewitt , the cast includes sigourney weaver , gene hackman , jason lee , nora dunn and anne bancroft . 
i can't imagine what drew performers of their caliber to this project . 
perhaps they thought it was a parody of the sniggering sex comedies of the '60s . 
if so , they were sadly mistaken . 
the story revolves around a mother-daughter con-team . 
it opens with the marriage of max ( weaver ) to dean ( liotta ) , a new jersey chop shop operator . 
having withheld sex until the honeymoon , max pretends to pass out on their wedding night . 
the next morning , she feigns illness , sending a very horny dean off to the office , where he ends up in the arms of his new secretary . 
just as the two are about to get overtly physical , max bursts into the room and catches them . 
the " horrified " bride dissolves the union , garnering a healthy cash settlement along the way . 
of course , the secretary was really her daughter page ( hewitt ) and the whole thing was a set-up . 
the women move on , but an irs agent ( bancroft ) catches up with them and demands a huge amount of money to cover unpaid taxes . 
in desperate need of funds , max and page head for palm beach to replay the scam . 
their mark this time is william b . tensy ( hackman , in hideous make-up ) , a decrepit tobacco tycoon obsessed with the joys of smoking . 
max starts to put the game into action , but page is so repelled by the old man ( and angry with her mom ) that she slips off to enact her own score , targeting jack , a laid back young beach bar owner who is worth a fortune . 
complications arise when page realizes that good-natured jack is stirring actual emotions in her steely little heart . 
as if that wasn't enough , dean reappears on the scene with revenge on his mind . 
the attempt to weld a romance onto a caper comedy served only to remind me of the infinitely superior " a fish called wanda . " 
i won't bother to compare the two . 
suffice to say that everything done right in " wanda " is done wrong here . 
 " heartbreakers " is soulless , inept and , at 123 minutes , at least a half-hour too long . 
sigourney weaver and jennifer love hewitt throw themselves into their parts , but have nowhere to go with the metallic characters . 
gene hackman is utterly wasted in a one-note , one-joke part that has him doing nothing but smoking , coughing and waxing rhapsodic about smoking and sex . 
poor jason lee is stuck in the ingenue role and the normally charismatic actor comes off as merely bland . 
ray liotta manages to squeeze a tiny bit of humanity and humor into his walking clich ? , but only a bit . 
the low point in the film has weaver employing a russian accent bad enough to make boris and natasha wince , while doing half-assed slapstick with a broken off penis from a statue . 
bear in mind , though , that this is merely the worst segment of a movie made up of nothing but low points . 
if you remember bob hope specials with fondness , this might be your cup of tea . 
as for me , i'm going to watch " a fish called wanda " now and try to forget i ever saw " heartbreakers . " 
 " american pie " alums jason biggs and mena suvari star in this summer's attempt to capitalize on the youth market looking for a comedy about young people they can relate to that combines generic hollywood cute couple-ness and zany comedy . 
it's about an a+ student ( biggs as " paul " ) who gets a scholarship to some college in new york city who sticks out like a sore thumb and falls for dora ( suvari ) a ditzy heroin-chic goth chick who has no ambition or self-respect whatsoever and allows herself to be pushed around just like " hick-boy " paul is . 
so we've got a fish-out-water formula mixed with meet-cute romantic comedy which ideally should make for a good movie . 
unfortunately the atrocious screenplay and boring direction by " clueless " auteur amy heckerling successfully manages to screw up everything about the film . 
these characters are totally unrealistic and unbelievable - it's as if everyone under age 30 is a stoned raver . 
there's no background or details to anyone or anything , it's just a bunch of cartoon characters running into each other . 
not to mention the story itself which is virtually non-existant and contains so many plotholes it's like swiss cheese . 
even the basic editing is bad . 
if you're looking for a romantic comedy stay far away from this one because it is neither romantic nor funny . 
i saw this in a packed cinema on opening night and the audience barely laughed at all . 
if you've seen the commericials you've seen all the " funny " parts ( which are all from the first five minutes ) . 
last summer , a feature-length version of the avengers hit theaters to the tune of a unanimous critical panning . 
based on the famous 60's television show , the film was an enormous box-office flop and a huge disappointment for warner bros . a year later , the studio is up to their old tricks again , with the unnecessary revival of the robert conrad program the wild , wild west . 
but it sounded promising : the same tag-team of star will smith and director barry sonnenfeld , who both contributed to make men in black such a financial success , is at the reins again . 
and co-star kevin kline is attached to the project , as well as a substantial budget to spice up the special effects . 
i mean , what could possibly go wrong ? 
the answer is just about everything . 
wild wild west is a cinematic abomination - a film that was so entirely pointless to begin with that it is never given a proper chance to get out of the gate . 
there are a lot of fancy special effects , and a handful of distinguished actors who try desperately to tunnel through the inane plot and make a lasting impression . 
but the script is so deliriously uneven , the entire movie so off course , that no human being or technical achievement has a chance to salvage it . 
at square one , we have a bizarre case of casting . 
will smith plays james west , a renegade cowboy who was originally played by white actor robert conrad in the tv series . 
my guess regarding the casting of african-american smith is a simple one : the actor + a cozy summertime release = big bucks for all those involved . 
smith is a very talented performer who usually brings swift assurance to any comic relief material , but this is not an ideal role for him . 
he's too much of a joker . 
i heard that initial casting included george clooney in the lead role , and frankly , that sounds a lot more plausible . 
what makes matters worse is that smith goes through the role with such self-assurance in his eyes ; you can practically sense his contentment with the fact that he knows wild wild west will be a huge hit at the summer box office . 
the plot involves west and cross-dressing government agent artemus gordon ( kevin kline ) , who are assigned by the president to recover a group of kidnapped scientists . 
the trail leads to the diabolical dr . arliss loveless ( kenneth branagh ) , a man with no lower body who speaks in a dry , witty southern accent . 
loveless has taken the country's top technical minds hostage so that they can assist in his deranged plan of total government control , using lethal superweapons to destroy entire towns . 
one such weapon is an 80-foot mechanical tarantula , bearing eight spindly legs of thrashing metal and spewing enormous fireballs left and right . 
the visual effects that bring this metallic bug to life are spectacular , seamlessly blending computer-generated imagery with the western surroundings . 
unfortunately , all of these effects seem so detached from the story , and can do little to support the film's plot deficiencies , which are undoubtedly the main problem . 
wild wild west is a running gag that never truly works . 
most of the jokes , usually care of smith , die on arrival . 
if it's one thing that could possibly be the saving grace , it's the performances , and even they are mostly off-kilter and poorly delivered . 
kline is admirable , but he has little to do but invent silly devices on the spot . 
salma hayek is wasted as the romantic interest , because she is viewed as little more than that - window dressing to look pretty and create conflict between west and gordon . 
branagh , an esteemed shakespearean actor and director , adds marginal enjoyment to the film . 
but even he is so utterly weird and over-the-top . 
rarely is a film so lost in itself as wild wild west is . 
i suppose there's always one turkey of the summer season ; a highly anticipated , big-budget release that manages to completely disappoint . 
wild wild west is such a movie , and will probably go down as one of the biggest disappointments of 1999 . 
but it is highly unlikely that this will go down in defeat at the box office . 
perhaps after this , audiences will be less assured when they see will smith's name stamped on a summer movie . 
after such hits as independence day and mib , wild wild west is not an impressive addition to the resume . 
at the outset of swordfish , john travolta's gabriel shear is pontificating about the status of american cinema today . 
basically , he says , it boils down to a lack of imagination among the majority of writers . 
how ironic , as travolta seems to be describing his latest venture . 
swordfish is loud , violent and amoral . 
it has the audacity to justify murder and mayhem in the name of sustaining our way of life . 
and how does travolta's gabriel plan to do this ? 
by robbing billions from his own government and using the funds to out-terrorize terrorists . 
swordfish is a very cynical movie . 
it relies on an audience's perception of our leaders as ineffectual and duplicitous and on terrorists as non-human , faceless entities not worthy of compassion or consideration . 
the movie's plot is preposterous with enough illogical leaps that if the film ever slowed down , you'd actually see how ridiculous it all is . 
this is a live-action road runner cartoon , moving so quickly that it's over before you can catch your breath to ask any reasonable questions . 
the storyline revolves around super hacker stanley jobson ( hugh jackman ) , recruited by gabriel to crack the government's computer codes so gabriel can gather billions for his anti-terrorist campaign . 
talk about whacked-out patriotism . 
my objections to swordfish are many . 
the body count is high , but that is expected in a movie of this sort . 
it's becoming a bore watching anonymous soldiers , police officers and government agents blown to bits . 
another example is the family dynamics between stanley , his 10-year-old daughter and his ex-wife . 
stanley , though having served time in prison for hacking , is shown as a loving and caring father , forbidden by his ex to see his little girl . 
audience animosity is immediately created for his former spouse by showing her as a drinker and smoker who also sometimes stars in her new husband's adult films . 
thus when she is found murdered late in the movie , neither stanley nor his daughter are allowed any time to grieve . 
in fact , subconsciously , many in the audience are probably glad she was killed . 
then there is the sequence involving one of gabriel's henchman holding a gun to the head of stanley's daughter to coerce the hacker to download the key computer program for gabriel . 
children as pawns have become a most unwelcome clich ? in recent films . 
there is enough violence in the real world involving children without having to make them on-screen victims as well . 
yea , it's only make believe , but that doesn't mean you have to tolerate it . 
travolta is cool , deadly charming and flamboyant as the near-crazy gabriel . 
his character is reminiscent of his villainous characterizations in broken arrow and face/off . 
jackman looks dour through most of the proceedings . 
his only moment of any depth comes when he finally is able to create the worm to get inside the government database . 
his sense of joy and accomplishment is one any computer whiz can appreciate . 
halle berry is decorative and lovely as gabriel's assistant , while don cheadle is given little to do as the head fbi agent hunting gabriel . 
swordfish plays like a comic book with a larger-than-life character in gabriel . 
viewers align themselves with him despite their uncertainty if he is hero or villain . 
and maybe that is the movie's underlying flaw : there is no real hero to speak of , only those doing their upmost to survive . 
and that is not enough . 
this is one swordfish that should have been thrown back in the water . 
it's probably inevitable that the popular virtual reality genre ( " the matrix , " " existenz " ) would collide with the even more popular serial-killer genre ( " kiss the girls , " " se7en " ) . 
the result should have been more interesting than " the cell . " 
as the movie opens , therapist catharine deane ( jennifer lopez ) treats a catatonic boy ( colton james ) by entering his mind through some sort of virtual reality technique that's never fully explained . 
after months of therapy sessions in a surreal desert , catharine has no success to report . 
meanwhile , killer carl stargher ( vincent d'onofrio ) has claimed another victim . 
his particular hobby is to kidnap young women , keep them in a glass cell overnight , and drown them . 
he takes the corpse and soaks it in bleach , then suspends himself over the body and jerks off while watching a video tape of the drowning . 
although carl's been doing this for awhile , he's recently become sloppy , and fbi agent peter novak ( vince vaughn ) is closing in fast . 
not fast enough , though , to keep carl from sticking another woman ( tara subkoff ) in the cell or to catch him before he suffers a schizophrenic attack that leaves him in a coma . 
from the videos in carl's house , peter can see that the drowning cell is automated and will fill with water forty hours after the abduction . 
to save the kidnapped girl , peter has to find the cell before the end of the day , and comatose carl's not talking . 
so off they go to catharine in the hope that she can go inside carl's mind and find out where the cell is in time . 
the focus of " the cell " in on the ornate interior of carl's mind , but the universe director tarsem singh creates seems more an exercise in computer-generated spectacle than an exploration of the psychotic personality . 
for the most part , it's style without substance . 
in his own mind , carl is a decadent emperor in flowing robes , ming the merciless , as well as a frightened boy ( jake thomas ) abused by his father . 
all in all , the mind of a psycho killer turns out to be a strangely dull place , and i kept wishing i could fast-forward to the next development . 
singh is best known for directing music videos , particularly rem's " losing my religion , " and " the cell " seems very much like a really long , really slow mtv video with the sound deleted . 
singer lopez seems to think she's in a video as well ; she devotes more time to posing in elaborate costumes than she does to acting . 
the premise had great promise . 
the computer-generated world within carl's mind could have been a bizarre , surreal universe governed by insanity and symbolism rather than logic . 
the first room catharine enters in carl's head shows this promise . 
she finds a horse standing in center of the room ; suddenly , sheets of sharp-edged glass fall into the horse , dividing it into segments . 
the panes of glass separate , pulling apart the pieces of the still-living horse . 
this scene is twisted , disturbing , and thought-provoking , because the psychological importance of the horse and its fate is left to the viewer to ponder . 
another element that should have been developed is the effect on catharine of merging with the mind of a psychopath . 
their minds begin to bleed together at one point in the movie , and this should have provided an opportunity to discover the dark corners of catharine's own psyche . 
like sidney lumet's " the offence " or michael mann's " manhunter , " " the cell " could have explored how the madness of the killer brings out a repressed darkness in the investigator . 
however , catharine's character is hardly developed at all , and lopez has no depth to offer the role . 
bottom line : don't get trapped in this one . 
synopsis : an aging master art thief , his supplier , and a young , buxom security consultant are all not who they first appear to be ( or are they ? ) in this convoluted mess involving a risky heist during the millennium . 
comments : this movie was boring . 
plain and simple . 
entrapment should not have been boring . 
it stars sean connery , who can still carry an action film despite his age , catherine zeta-jones , a likeable enough film presence , and ving rhames , ultra-cool star of pulp fiction and mission : impossible . 
it takes full advantage of the y2k computer bug fears ( a current " hot topic " in the news ) in its storyline , which is set at the end of 1999 . 
it has some genuinely well-staged action sequences . 
so , what went wrong ? 
plenty , unfortunately . 
the major problem with entrapment is its script . 
it has a been-there , done-that feel to it . 
nothing seems particularly inventive or original , so the whole movie lacks suspense and drags ( it runs nearly two hours ) . 
the screenwriters , for example , periodically use a countdown to the millennium as a means of transition between scenes ( i . e . 
 " 4 days to the millennium " ) . 
this device was used much more effectively in the overlooked sci-fi film strange days . 
the characters are not who they appear to be at the beginning , which is neat at first but the device wears thin once the umpteenth " surprise " revelation is made . 
entrapment , in other words , relies too heavily on the audience not knowing what each character's true motive is , resulting in a convoluted story which leaves many scratching their heads in confusion . 
the star power here is quite strong , but the viewer can't help but feel the actors are wasted in this production . 
sean connery is given such mind-numbing lines as " never trust a naked woman . " 
ving rhames' character seems like an afterthought ; he's not developed at all . 
the camera zooms in frequently and leeringly at catherine zeta-jones's tight wardrobe . 
this , in and of itself , is not bad , but , after a while , it has a juvenile feel to it . 
at least the species movies hold no bones about the fact that they're exploiting the female body . 
entrapment does the same under the thin disguise of plot development ( sean connery supposedly falls in love with the girl while watching her , in tights , arc and pivot around laser beams ) . 
the tagline for this movie reads " the trap is set . " 
it sure is , on those who spent money to see this movie . 
entrapment really isn't that bad ; it is watchable . 
i would suggest , however , one waits until this is on cable or television to see it . 
the first image in " final fantasy : the spirits within " is a computer-animated close-up of a human eye . 
it's a beautiful piece of work , remarkably detailed and quite convincing . 
when the picture pulls back to reveal the owner of the eye , however , things change . 
the young woman has mesmerizing hair , although it hangs too artfully ? even by movie standards ? to be believed . 
the facial features are more detailed than any computer-animation seen to date , but the result is more reminiscent of a very well-crafted doll than anything human . 
she is pretty , but bland , and not nearly expressive enough to come off like a person . 
all the characters in " final fantasy " are like that . 
of the core group , the younger white men and women are all athletic , attractive and indistinct , like applicants for a tv reality show . 
the black man is taller and burlier , and the aging scholar is bald , with wrinkles and a beard . 
none of them appear to be based on individuals ; they all look like the products of general descriptions given a police sketch artist . 
it gets worse when they talk and move . 
why is the sarcastic voice of steve buscemi , he of the great twisted face and snaggleteeth , coming out of the mouth of some dreary ken doll ? 
why , for every fluid physical gesture , do we also see herky-jerky puppet-style motions ? 
more to the point , who decided a full-length computer animated movie featuring " hyperreal " ( their term , not mine ) humanoids was a good idea ? 
 " final fantasy " is based on a phenomenally popular video game i've never played , with a story straight out of japanese anime , which more often than not leaves me bored and depressed . 
if you're a fan of either , please spare me your letters , as i will focus solely on the finished film and not its source materials . 
with an expression-challenged cast , " final fantasy " mixes turgid action scenes with heaps of mystical shit . 
the result is ugly , confusing and boring . 
note : the following reveals the basic plot . 
if you want to have a fighting chance of making any sense of the movie , i suggest you read it . 
earth is at war with aliens that appear to feed on human souls . 
most of our planet is devastated , with humans living in a few protected cities . 
while the bulk of the survivors focus on military strategies , aki ross ( voiced by ming-na ) and her mentor , dr . sid ( donald sutherland ) , believe in a more organic approach . 
they operate on the notion ( quoting straight from the press kit ) " that all life forms have signature spirit waves that can be identified and contained . 
aki and dr . sid collect a series of organic specimens whose spirit signatures combined will form a wave of equal and opposite intensity to the spirit wave of the alien force . 
the waves will , in effect , cancel each other out and disarm the foreign contagion . 
they have collected six of the eight key spirits needed to complete their wave . 
they are on a desperate hunt to find the remaining two spirits before their time runs out . " 
are you still with me ? 
there's only a little more . 
aki is infected with the alien force . 
dr . sid has developed a method of confining the contagion and keeping it from killing her , but the defense wall won't hold much longer . 
already , the alien is communicating with aki through her dreams . 
aiding aki and dr . sid are the deep eyes , a group of hard-as-nails types that would have felt at home with the troops in " aliens . " 
capt . gray edwards ( alec baldwin ) heads the task force that consists of a wise guy ( buscemi ) , a tough woman ( peri gilpin ) and a gentle giant ( ving rhames ) . 
throwing a monkey wrench into the plans is the requisite dumb ass : in this case general hein ( james woods ) , who wants to use the zeus cannon to bomb the aliens back to the stone age , even if it destroys earth as well . 
so there you have it . 
like most of the anime i've seen , the plot combines apocalyptic settings , lots of shooting and fuzzy spirituality , all wrapped up in a save-the-earth bow . 
but i'm bored with apocalyptic settings . 
i understand why so many live-action films employ them ? they're cheap ? but animated films can show anything , so why wallow in an industrial trash heap ? 
the action scenes and shoot-em-ups don't satisfy either . 
the humans move oddly and their facial features are so muted that the talented voice cast can't bring them to life ( in fact , their efforts merely emphasize what we're missing ) . 
aki is especially disappointing ; with her lack of expression and flat delivery , she looks and sound like a brunet version of weena , the eloi girl from 1960's " the time machine . " 
drab color choices and aliens that appear to have been created in jell-o molds sap the pizzazz from the big set pieces . 
students of computer animation may be fascinated with the technology behind " final fantasy : the spirits within , " but i found it sub-par across the board . 
 " futurama " does more effective battle visuals , the kids in " south park " are far more expressive than these mannequins and any old episode of the contemporary version of " the outer limits " does better doom and gloom sci-fi . 
so who needs this ? 
not me . 
plot : token director alan smithee steals the only copy of his film " trio " from the studio , after they complete the " final cut " without him . 
he threatens to burn the film reel if they do not allow him to keep his vision . 
critique : wow . 
i really can't remember the last time a movie sucked on so many levels ! 
the " comedy " in this film is pathetic , obvious and dated ( oj simpson jokes galore ) . 
the plot is uninteresting , boring and bad . 
the structure of the film is annoying , repetitive and pretentious . 
the acting is pretty bad , especially jackie chan , who can't act to save his life . 
the cameos are lame and seem forced , and the ending blows chunks . 
all in all , this movie believes itself to be a clever , humorous and edgy look behind the closed doors of hollywood , but comes across as a boring , stupid and completely unentertaining piece of shite . 
i love to see movies about hollywood shenanigans , but this one bites the big one . 
see it if you like to watch really bad movies , otherwise skip it , because it will just have you hating every star that makes an appearance in it . 
luckily for us all , this mess only lasts about 80 minutes , and miramax honcho harvey weinstein plays a lead-faced detective . 
by the way , is there any reason why the studio or the producer couldn't have cut another version of the film by the way of all the filmed stock that was left over ? 
who knows , who cares , this " satire " sucks the bag . 
little known facts about this film and its stars : ironically , the original director of this film , arthur hiller , also requested his name be taken off the credits and replaced by the dga's alan smithee moniker . 
this was after the film's production company , cinergi pictures , preferred the cut made by producer/writer joe eszterhas to his . 
the original script of this film included arnold schwarzenegger and bruce willis . 
eszterhas announced through the media during post-production that cinergi pictures didn't have the money to pay for soundtrack . 
he said that he would finance the soundtrack from his own money and asked to submit tracks for it to him . 
he received 9 , 200 cds and cassettes from mostly unknown and unsigned artists , listened to all that was sent ( at least a couple of tracks from each record ) and compiled the soundtrack . 
this film practically swept the " razzie awards " in 1999 , given out to the worst of all movie categories of the year , with no less than the " worst picture " award , the " worst screenplay " ( joe eszterhas ) , the " worst supporting actor " ( joe eszterhas ) , the " worst new star " ( joe eszterhas tied with jerry springer ) and the " worst original song " ( " i wanna be mike ovitz ! " 
as written by joe eszterhas ) . 
plot : a rich guy who doesn't believe in love , orders a mail-order bride for himself . 
that very evening , the couple is married and fall madly in love soon thereafter . 
but what's this ? 
one of them might not be the person they are pretending to be ? 
wow . . . a 
sin , indeed . 
critique : easily one of the worst movies that i've seen all year . 
too long , too boring , too predictable and too ridiculous for anyone interested in watching a good movie . 
what the hell were they thinking when they made this thing ? 
 ( it's no wonder that the film has been sitting on the racks for about a year ) this felt like a really bad tv movie of the week , with some nudity stuffed in from time to time , just to wake up the audience . 
have you ever switched channels and fallen upon one of those ridiculously melodramatic tv movies , one that you just couldn't help but switch back to from time to time , just to make sure that it wasn't part of some sick joke ? 
well , this movie is exactly like that , only it isn't a joke , it isn't on tv and you are asked to pay money to see it ! ! 
i say again . . . what the shite were they thinking ? 
okay , so where do i start ? 
first of all , the trailer of this film gives away the movie's main plot twist , the betrayal . 
so for the first half hour of the film , you're basically just sitting there , watching these two " lovers " go through the motions until the " betrayal " occurs . 
whoopee , big surprise . 
second of all , angelina jolie is horribly miscast in this part . 
why ? 
well , it's like this : not for one second do you ever believe that she is not a nasty backstabbing woman ! 
i mean , it's like all of those people who complained about jack nicholson being psycho from the start of the shining , well , the same goes here . 
every look in jolie's eyes screams " psycho " ! 
then of course , you have the case of the " patsy " husband , a man who just can't seem to figure out anything in time . 
i mean . . . how 
boring is that for the audience ? 
you're watching this guy screw up time after time after time , and somehow , we're supposed to feel sorry or care about this dude . 
no , thanks ! 
and if we don't care about him , and we really don't care about her ( she's a beeyatch and as confused as we are about her actual motivations in the film ) , who the hell are we supposed to care about in this film ? 
well , i'll tell you . 
the only thing that i was worrying about the whole way through this picture was whether or not i'd actually fall asleep before the end credits rolled . 
no suspense , no chemistry between the leads , no real love or passion , no sense of surprise , plenty of plot holes for everyone and an extra moronic ending . 
so why am i even giving this film a rating of three points ? 
well , it's actually pretty simple . 
i liked the locations in the movie and the groovy score , but my primary reason for slipping three notches onto this bedpost is for the gratuitous shots of jolie's boobies ( that's two points right there ! ) and another one for antonio's ass ( hairless , just for the record ) . 
everything else in this movie was pointless , boring and just plain stupid . 
try imagining a soft-porn movie . . . but 
without the plot ! 
that's pretty much what you've got here . 
a low point in the careers of both stars . 
oops , i almost forgot to mention the crappy dialogue . . . god 
oh mighty . . . make 
it stop ! ! 
where's joblo coming from ? 
american psycho ( 9/10 ) - cruel intentions ( 8/10 ) - eyes wide shut ( 6/10 ) - fatal attraction ( 8/10 ) - playing by heart ( 7/10 ) - under suspicion ( 7/10 ) - what lies beneath ( 8/10 ) - what women want ( 4/10 ) - whipped ( 7/10 ) 
not a great twelve months for either of the principals from this movie . 
earlier this year , nora ephron wrote and produced one of the year's least likeable " comedies " called hanging up , featuring a bunch of annoying women ( ironically , lisa kudrow played one in that film as well ) who barely have time to care about anyone but themselves . 
ick . . . real 
sweet stuff . 
but her little unsuccessful project was nothing compared to what john travolta went through earlier this summer , with a film entitled battlefield earth . 
i seemed to be the only person on this planet who somehow appreciated the film , even if it was on a " cheese " factor , as everybody , and i mean everybody else , pretty much classified the movie as one of the worst disasters of all time . 
yipes . . . another 
beauty . 
so what happens when you put these two people in the same room and come out with a movie co-starring the ever-versatile lisa kudrow ? 
uhhhm , you guessed it . . . not 
much . 
plot : in order to escape major financial difficulties , a local weatherman hooks up with his ball-picking lotto girlfriend and rigs the state lottery . 
but as more and more people find out about their scheme , more and more people demand a part of their winnings , and more and more problems arise . 
critique : simply stated , i didn't laugh once during this entire picture . 
for a comedy , it offered me a few smiles , a bunch of nincompoops as characters , a miscast john travolta hamming it up and lisa kudrow , in what can only described as a " sluttier " version of her character of phoebe on tv's " friends " . 
this film was not as disastrous as i thought it would be , but it was pretty close . 
thankfully , the clips of travolta dressed up in goofy outfits , dancing as the weatherman were left in the film's trailer , and not in this final cut . 
and not unlike the worst movie of the year so far , beautiful , this film also managed to feature many unsympathetic , idiotic and just plain irritating characters in its cast . 
foremost was travolta's character , who declined to give us any reason to care for him once in the entire movie . 
and for me , the casting choice of john travolta for this role was just plain wrong . 
he didn't fit the part . 
i just saw him in get shorty the other day and thought about how perfect he was for that role . 
a cool , calculating roughneck with a certain hip , suave " je ne sais quoi " . 
in this film , he looks like he's trying to be funny , trying to be bad , trying to be good . 
we're not supposed to be able to notice that , and when we do , at least in my case , i consider it a wrong choice in casting . 
add that to lisa kudrow , boring us with yet another one of her patented " dumb blonde " routines , but this time , dressed in sexier outfits . 
michael rapaport , stretching one small acting muscle to play the guy who isn't quite up at the same speed level as everyone else . 
and a truckload of empty comedic bullet shells , and you've got yourself an extremely quiet audience anticipating punch lines that never quite materialize . 
the only real good thing that i could say about this film is that its story was actually half-interesting and never really bored me . 
i also liked michael moore's perverted cousin character , and i loved , and i say it again , loved the character that bill pullman played . 
give this dude his own movie ! 
he played a lazy cop , a man who tries everything not to do any real work . 
he fakes injuries to get off duty , tries to avoid arrest situations so that he won't have to fill out any forms . . . now 
there's a base of humor . 
sadly , the filmmakers decided to bring him into play with only about half an hour left in the film . 
and there's not much else i can say about this movie , folks . 
on the whole , it was lame , included a slew of unlikable characters fiddling around in a pool of unfunny lines , and very little of interest for any target audience . 
but get somebody to write up a movie featuring that lazy cop played by pullman and i'm there ! 
the stereotypical american male has an undeniable fetishistic love of sports cars . 
producer jerry bruckheimer plays upon that attraction with a movie so loaded with testosterone and laced titillatingly with shot after frenetic shot of powerful muscle cars , sleek foreign road huggers and iconic speed machines that many males will leave the theater in an orgasmic haze . 
gone is 60 seconds is an orgy of maleness gone horribly awry . 
cage is legendary retired car thief , memphis raines ( don't you love cute movie names ) , who must call upon his time worn skills to save his thick-headed brother ( ribisi ) from being killed . 
seems a murderous crime boss ( eccleston ) with a fetish for wood ( insert your own joke ) hired brother kip to steal a ridiculous amount of expensive , exotic autos . 
fifty cars , to be exact . 
poor kip screws the pooch and bungles the job badly . 
if the cars aren't delivered in three days , bossman has a casket carved out just for kip . 
literally . 
if only someone could save him . 
hmmmm . . wonder 
what memphis is doing ? 
in order to give the film some emotional heft , there are several subplots designed to tug at our heartstrings or give us the thrill of . . . yawn , excuse me , dramatic tension . 
shadowing memphis is an old law enforcement foe ( lindo ) who's looking to send memphis away . 
will he catch him ? 
there's old flame sway ( jolie ) , who had her heart broken by memphis years ago . 
will they get back together ? 
shortsighted , thrill seeker kip idolizes his brother , yet resents him for moving away from the family . 
will they reconnect ? 
raines old mentor ( duvall ) has long since left the life of crime . 
will memphis get him finally caught as he pulls him back into the life , one more time ? 
can you answer all these questions correctly in 2 seconds without seeing the film first ? 
i'll bet you can . 
following the opening credits , which fill you in on the accomplishments of the raines family through a montage of old photos , we was taken full throttle into the splendor that is memphis . 
he's first shown living the good life teaching young children to drive go-carts . 
in a later scene , as misfit brother kip knowingly tells memphis he has the stolen car situation under control , all the while making breakfast , a metaphor is made of shakespearean proportions . 
just as a pan of grease flares up with kip clueless to how to quell it , big brother memphis calmly and efficiently throws some salt on it . 
looks like everything might turn out alright after all . 
you know this because the music swells on the crest of violins . 
that's about as strong as the characterization gets , which is a shame . 
bruckheimer has a real talent for loading his movies with an obscene amount of talent given the task at hand . 
monumentally underused jolie portrays an empty headed sexpot whose idea of sex revolves around cars and memphis . 
or maybe it's just the cars . 
duvall trots out his ornery , but sweet old codger outfit . 
i'm sure he's still laughing at taking a paycheck for this one . 
lindo projects a warm hearted , but tightly focused detective that almost transcends the material . 
the biggest waste of resources is vinnie jones , who plays a mute accomplice of memphis . 
without saying a word , he is easily the most charismatic person in the movie . 
like a blast of nitrous oxide , he attacks each scene with a straightforward zeal . 
too bad his minutes onscreen are so few . 
somehow , bruckheimer manages to attract top hollywood acting talent to high concept , poorly written movies , gussies up the film with lots of gold hues and pleasingly stylized action and they sell like proverbial hotcakes . 
every time something clever happens it's counterbalanced by something so overtly wrong that it jerks you back into realizing you're watching a movie . 
there's a innovative usage of black lighting that goes from being a novelty to a part of the plot . 
it's counterbalanced by an extremely feeble attempt at humor by having an asian american repeatedly failing a driver's test . 
imagine the yuks . 
there's a segment where one of the thieves shows another his cool fake fingerprint trick . 
it's countered by the lame semi-subplot of a car being stolen with a bunch of heroin in the trunk . 
the ramifications are never explored . 
then there's the ridiculousness of the many cops who actually shoot at fleeing cars . 
not only is it stupid , but it's against the law . 
this is a movie made of pretty , but tepid car chases strung together by just enough character interaction to move the plot along . 
gone in 60 seconds aptly describes how long it'll take for this marginally entertaining , but empty film to leave your memory . 
first and foremost i think this movie comes to grief at the hands of the pg rating it's been given . 
for those of us who haven't read the james lee burke novel that heaven's prisoners is based on , do not rabidly go out and buy tickets to movies featuring the combined talents of alec baldwin and eric roberts , feel vaguely depressed by the notion of swamps , gangsters with louisiana accents , plots , sub-plots , more plots , and well , really just want to see teri hatcher naked , this is one movie you're going to worry the price of admission over . 
hopeful still ? 
well , let me share my moment of sheer panic , and then the cold enervation of the big let-down when a semi-robed hatcher purrs to alec baldwin , " what do you think of my butterfly ? " . 
butterfly ? , 
i asked myself , what butterfly ? ! 
and then it hit me . . . 
the scene had been snipped ! 
damn you , godless pg rating , show us her butterfly ! ! 
we want to see the goddamn butterfly ! ! ! 
so . . . 
no naked teri hatcher . 
forget about that . 
okay ? 
now . . . 
heaven's prisoners is about ex-alchoholic ex-cop dave robicheaux ( alec baldwin ) who's trying to discover life anew running a bait shop and boat hire business with his loving , down-to-earth wife annie ( kelly lynch ) . 
everything dull , but hunky dory until a plane carrying illegal immigrants crashes almost ontop of the couple while they're on their boat . 
the plane nosedives into the water and sinks , but from its wreckage robicheaux rescues a little pixie-faced salvadoran girl whom he and his wife immediately decide to adopt . 
what they don't realise is that the plane's pilot was also a drug dealer , and that the plane had been sabotaged by the latter's erstwhile colleagues . 
when robicheaux discovers this , he predictably , against the advice of his wife , a well-meaning dea agent , and two gangsters who rough him up , begins 'poking his nose where it don't belong' , we know that the man deserves all the misery he's going to get . 
the question now is whether or not you want to be dragged along for the ride through a tedious , meandering yet utterly suspenseless plot with an unlovable hero as your guide . 
as dave robicheaux , alec baldwin is fat . . . 
no seriously , this is not the svelte , thinking man's hero of the hunt for red october , it is an out-of-shape guy who doesn't look too good in a roof-top chasing scene . 
he's also unconvincing in the movie's dramatic moments , acting with what as far as i can tell is a steven segal-like economy of expression . 
three-quarters of the way through the show , while you're probably waiting for the next scene in a bar where robicheaux contemplates succumbing to the temptation of the whiskey bottle , getting drunk and beating up someone or getting beaten up , you'll want to beat on him a little yourself . 
on the other hand , mary stuart masterson ( some kind of wonderful , fried green tomatoes , benny & joon ) cast as a down-and-out stripper who has her fingers broken is quite a breath of fresh air , with just the right mix of cynicism , warmth , insecurity and humour to be the movie's only endearing character . 
eric roberts as bubba rocque , always believable as the woman-abusing bad guy who knows how to box ( see final analysis , coincidentally also directed by phil joanou ) is believable here as the woman-abusing bad guy who knows how to box . 
and lest we forget teri hatcher's role in all this , this being her rather well-publicised paid vacation from playing lois lane on tv's " adventures of lois & clark " . . . 
she is totally ridiculous as rocque's manipulative and seductive cajun wife , coming across as devious as a mildly disgruntled au pair who's trying to get back at an employer who hasn't been giving her enough days off . 
it's probably safe to say that her day job beckons . 
and at the end of our day , none of this is really worth 2 hrs and 12 minutes of our personal misery . 
the flying inkpot's rating system : * wait for the video . 
 * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha ! 
 * * * pretty good , bring a friend . 
 * * * * amazing , potent stuff . 
 * * * * * perfection . 
see it twice . 
it's amazing how a comedian can have the some of the funniest stand-up around but completely fall flat in the movies . 
take adam sandler . 
on the basis of his first two cds ( " they're all gonna laugh at you ! " 
and " what the hell happened to me ? " ) , 
he's the best thing to hit comedy since robin williams . 
but when you put him in front of a camera , it just isn't the same . 
i kind of enjoyed happy gilmore and thought that it warranted a marginal recommendation , but his latest film , the waterboy is about as funny as a root canal . 
seriously , i'm willing to wager than there were more laughs in saving private ryan than there are here . 
in fact , i found this movie to be more depressing than comedic . 
the first half hour generated not one smile in me , with it's scenes of emotional abuse towards adam's character of bobby boucher not only by the cruel football players , but also by his very disturbed mother ( kathy bates - what is the world coming to ? ) . 
granted , after the film gets rolling , there are a few mild chuckles throughout ( i'm even willing to admit that it actually had me laughing once or twice ) , but not nearly enough to sustain the waterboy for it's nearly hour and a half running time . 
you're all familiar with the plot because you've seen it at least a million times before ; everyone picks on the hero until he shows a hidden talent and leads the underdog team to victory over the champions , in the process not only winning the respect of his teammates but also getting the woman he loves . 
and believe me , i'm not giving anything away by saying that sandler's team wins . 
if you would actually feel any degree of suspense watching this movie , then god be with you . 
the only things that keep this bomb from getting the big banana are the winning performances from henry winkler as the insecure coach and the severely underrated fairuza balk as bobby's love interest . 
i mean , they should be lending their talents to some loftier purpose , but they do extremely well with what they are given here . 
kudos to both of them . 
my advice to adam is to try and follow in the footsteps of veteran comedians like williams and steve martin , who made a very smooth and successful transition from stage to screen . 
rely more on actual comedy rather than strange voices and rude noises to make people laugh . 
or maybe even show what dramatic talent he might have , like jim carrey did with the recent truman show . 
with the obvious and considerable talent that he possesses , he just can't keep going on like this . 
according to popular film opinion , a film's greatness is determined by time . 
take for example " casablanca . " 
great film , even today . 
it's still as powerful as it was when it came out and still as romantic and tragic . 
another example would be " star wars , " which had a very , very healthy box office gross despite the fact that we had all seen it about 3 billion times before . 
but as i rewatched " independence day " when it came out on video after being the number one hit of 1996 , i kinda felt like it wasn't as cool as when i had first seen it . 
i had liked it when i saw it the first time ( * * * was my original view ) and basically saw it as a good " escape film . " 
but when i rewatched it , i felt cheated . 
thus , the curse of the " event film . " 
 " independence day " is like that kid who come out of nowhere and makes everybody happy at once ( except for a couple kids - the critics , in this situation ) . 
but after a while , this kid becomes annoying and you just wait for the next one . 
well , this kid is the " event film " in my little analogy . 
and when i rewatched " independence day , " not only did it not look cooler at all on the big screen , but i felt insulted the whole time . 
there are too many gaping craters in the plot and you just aren't sure if it's comedy or hokey drama . 
one scene , you'll see a hilariously nebbish scene between jeff goldblum and judd hirsch ; the next you'll see a bunch of military uptight guys walking around , saying corny lines . 
the worst is a scene between brent spiner and bill pullman where spiner is sayinig something innocently funny but is barked like a junkyard dog by bill pullman who gives him the most unitentionally funniest speech since the end of " glen or glenda ? " 
now this annoying kid's problem is that in the process of trying to make everyone like him all at once , he shows he has no balls . 
and " independence day " has no balls . 
it plays it safe everywhere . 
it throws in a ton of action that is borrowed from other superior films . 
the chase scene between the alien ship and will smith is straight out of " star wars . " 
i mean , isn't that devil's den ? 
and the aliens are about as anticlimactic as demi moore's breasts in " striptease . " 
they're these octopus men , boring freaking octopus men . 
i mean , come on . 
the aliens in " 2001 " were more interesting and you didn't even see them ! 
basically the plot is straight from a b-movie from the 50s : aliens come to earth and we wonder if they're hostile or peaceful . 
okay , it's an interesting topic , but it's not handled greatly . 
now they aren't and somehow a computer geek , jeff goldblum , figure out they're using our satellites as a countdown to destruction . 
yep . 
these aliens are not only heavily armed , they're stupid too . 
they also use the same kind of computer as we do , but that comes about later . 
the president ( bill pullman ) , who's under attack for being a wimp , decides this would be a nice time to be belligerent , and he decides he'll stay in the white house which the aliens have covered . 
i don't care if it's bob freaking dole in the white house , get him out of there . 
i don't care if you have to inject him with sodium pentathol , just get him out of there . 
later on , he's stupid and wants to fly in the attack on a big alien ship . 
i think it's time for impeachment for this guy . 
he's more senile than reagan on pot . 
then there's a cocky pilot ( will smith ) who is the only person to survive the counter-attack on the second day and becomes moses in leading his children to the elusive area 51 ( the film's only sign of being brave ) . 
his girlfriend's a stripper sharing a subplot with " striptease " in that she has to do it for her son . 
come on , she has a fighter pilot boyfriend/soon-to-be fiance . 
i think she can quit that job and get a more respectable job at long john silvers . 
she's also the few , the proud , the lucky to survive the igniting of l . a . ( as well as her dog , who narrowly survives ) . 
there are some bright spots . 
they tossed in enough old film homages to keep me laughing . 
the best one is when jeff goldblum ( nicely named david ) turns on his computer and a picture of hal comes up and says , " good morning , dave . " 
and they even played r . e . m . 's 
 " it's the end of the world as we know it ( and i feel fine ) at the beginning . 
and judd hirsch steals the film by actually acting great ( he's a stereotype , but i just loved the man anyway ) . 
but there are no real subtle comic moments . 
will gets way too many one-liners and he has no one to play off of ( execept jeff towards the end , and the two do great ) . 
as i said , this film has no balls . 
it is just aiming for a crowd pleaser and that's what it is . 
but after a couple months , we all move on to the next " event " film while intaking little films and a couple indy ones for good measure . 
but at least the indy ones last for a lifetime . 
this one's short on batteries . 
by trying to satisfy every kind of viewer , it's possible that sphere may end up pleasing no one . 
action lovers will be bored by what they will see as an interminably boring setup . 
audience members who crave more intellectual fare will be disgusted by the film's sudden collapse into mindless storytelling and by the ending , which is an insulting cop-out . 
somewhere out there , maybe there's a small cadre of film-goers who will appreciate sphere's dubious charms , but i'm not among them . 
i sincerely hope the novel is better than the movie ( i no longer read anything by either michael crichton or john grisham ) , because if the finished motion picture product is anything to go by , it's hard to understand why the rights were optioned . 
sphere is the kind of first- class mess that only a top-line director with an a-list cast can create . 
with expectations high ( and how could they not be , considering that another barry levinson/dustin hoffman collaboration , the excellent wag the dog , is still playing in theaters ? ) , 
something this bad can't help but look even worse . 
the last time a big-name , big-budget film displayed this level of ineptitude was last year's batman & robin , and everyone knows how that movie was received . 
sphere starts out a little like an amalgamation of contact and james cameron's the abyss , but , somewhere along the way , it collapses into the cellar with another recent science fiction effort , event horizon . 
science and philosophy , which are used to good effect during sphere's first hour , give way to mindless , confusing action sequences . 
attempts at characterization fall apart . 
intelligent writing , which is evident early on , is replaced by hackneyed drivel . 
special effects take over as the plotline devolves into incoherent silliness . 
but all that is just in preparation for the ending , which is inexcusably awful . 
this is the time-honored deus ex machina device used to its worst effect . 
i left the theater feeling cheated by the way crichton and his screenwriters had chosen to end the film . 
there is some promise , but it's all in the setup . 
we're introduced to norman goodman ( dustin hoffman ) , a psychologist who once wrote a $35 , 000 report for the government about what to do in the event that a crashed space ship is discovered . 
when one is found in the middle of nowhere , 1000 feet below the surface of the pacific ocean , norman is called in to be part of the welcoming committee . 
on the team with him are beth halperin ( sharon stone ) , a biochemist who was once his student and lover ; harry adams ( samuel l . jackson ) , a mathematician who earned his first doctorate at the age of 18 ; ted fielding ( liev schreiber ) , an astrophysicist who is awed by the opportunity to explore alien technology ; and harold barnes ( peter coyote ) , the government operative in charge of the mission . 
together , the five descend into the bowels of the ocean , where they rendezvous with a temporary sea base on the ocean floor from which they will attempt to make first contact . 
for a while , sphere had me fooled into thinking it was going to take an astute approach to the man-meets-alien situation . 
the overall scenario is not without promise and several plot twists ( such as the revelation that the enormous craft is actually an american space ship , apparently from the future ) offer intriguing possibilities . 
then , right around the one-hour mark ( that's the time to sneak into the theater next door and check out whatever's left of titanic ) , the virtually non-stop action begins , and , once it starts , the script becomes superfluous . 
this might be acceptable if director levinson generated some legitimate tension , but , instead , he relies on loud , overbearing music , strange camera angles , and quick cuts to make things " exciting . " 
additionally , because none of the characters are well-formed ( a common failing in anything penned by crichton , who's more interested in technology than people ) , viewers don't develop much of a rooting interest . 
it makes sitting through sphere a frustrating and pointless experience . 
what about that a-list cast ? 
not surprisingly , the most energetic performance is given by samuel l . jackson , but his harry isn't a person ; he's a walking plot device spouting occasionally-witty dialogue . 
dustin hoffman isn't lively or particularly good -- it's ironic that this , which may be his worst work in a decade , has arrived in theaters on the heels of his best actor nomination ( for wag the dog ) . 
sharon stone and peter coyote are both flat . 
their characters exhibit little evidence of emotion ; automatons would have been as effective . 
then there's queen latifa , who , despite getting fifth billing in the credits ( ahead of liev schreiber , who boasts at least quadruple her screen time ) , has less than a handful of lines and almost nothing to do other than inflate the body count . 
i like to think that levinson and hoffman , recognizing how uninspired this movie was likely to be , chose to make wag the dog as a sort of penance ( the low-budget picture was filmed during sphere's lengthy pre-production phase ) . 
if that's the case , forgiveness is granted . 
i'm less inclined to look favorably upon crichton , although he has a few enjoyable titles on his resume ( jurassic park and the levinson-directed disclosure come to mind ) . 
even if his novel was butchered in the adaptation process , crichton's credit as a producer disallows him absolution . 
he was a willing participant in a creative travesty . 
no wonder sphere is being released in february , in the midst of the early year's cinematic wasteland . 
it deserves no better than to get sunk by the unstoppable titanic , which should plow sphere under on its way to a ninth-consecutive weekend atop the box office heap . 
shakespeare in love is quite possibly the most enjoyable period piece ever made for the silver screen . 
it is both humorous and romantic in a very unique blend that can successfully entertain any audience for the nearly 2 and and a half hours that it occupies . 
that is , however , not to say it is a good film , a quality production or anything of the sort . 
shakespeare in love is an incredibly cheap illusion that truly pans out to be very little quality or original work . 
the finest sign of this may be the plot , in looking back , there seems to be little more than a thin , predictable plot that is only carried by the portrayal of people that we revere in our history books . 
philip henslowe ( geoffrey rush ) owns 1 of the 2 theatres in london . 
it is at the peak of the royal theatre era , and queen elizabeth ( the recently damed judi dench , by , appropriately enough , queen elizabeth ii ) is very much a fan . 
however , to directly quote the film , he has " cash flow problems . " 
through a long set of events , it becomes apparent that his entire life is dependent on his next show doing well enough to pay off his debts . 
so , mr . henslowe employs the young playwright , william shakespeare ( joseph fiennes ) to pen a comedic production . 
however , the young writer has a severe case of writer's block , and blames it on the fact that his love life is struggling as well . 
he has the title in mind , romeo and ethel , the pirate's daughter ( even that joke loses steam after a while ) but can't seem to put words to paper . 
then , as only hollywood could have it , through a long set of twisted events , he meets viola de lesseps ( gwyneth paltrow ) and falls madly in love , thus curing his writer's block . 
there are many other little issues that mr . henslowe encounters , but they all pan out to be much ado about nothing . 
the first realization that i reached in watching this film is that one of the messages given is that a show should not always be credited to it's author . 
ironically , that couldn't be truer here . 
the great scenes that will sweep audiences away are not the scenes that fit in the plot , but rather the recitals of shakespearean lines by actors playing actors . 
one of the most breathtaking moments in this film does not involve the character of shakespeare or queen elizabeth or even the theatre owner , but rather 2 young children named romeo and juliet who chose to end their own lives in the name of love . 
so it is that i am offended by the fact that marc norman and tom stoppard are credited with writing this production , and the name william shakespeare is no were to be seen beyond a character's name in the credits . 
the acting in this entertaining yet poor film is often thin to the point that it would not have survived even in queen elizabeth's theatres . 
joseph fiennes may just be the worst of fall though . 
he is tragically unbelievable and comically bad . 
gwyneth paltrow is little more than satisfactory in her lead position as well . 
however , the supporting cast does almost save the day . 
geoffrey rush is nothing short of incredible and judi dench is breathtaking . 
they both seem to have shown that as proven actors they could survive in this film of weak links . 
you will also find a very good performance by ben affleck in his first real role since good will hunting ( no , armageddon doesn't qualify as real acting . ) . 
and rupert everett was cute in his small part as well . 
but not even they could save this sad excuse for a film , so it remains plagued by poor performances . 
when all is said and done , shakespeare in love is only worth the trip if you want to be entertained . 
however , as the film so kindly pointed out , entertainment may be fun , but it isn't necessarily quality . 
and this certainly isn't quality . 
perhaps this may be best compared to a john grisham novel , as a dear friend of mine often does compare things to his work . 
simply put , it is far-fetched , poorly crafted , but very entertaining . 
at times , you'd think edtv would be an entertaining film . 
i mean , who can resist the story of your average joe becomming a celebrity by having his life filmed every minute of every day ? 
but this average joe , ed perkuny , ( matthew mcconaughay ) , is a sappy , lifeless creation that wanders around , trying to solve everyone's problems and settle his own . 
mcconaughay is awful , especially because he is trying to pull off his usual hollywood charm with a 3 week beard and torn jeans . 
frankly , he had more charm in the devestating flop the newton boys . 
he overacts in every way : his overexaggerant body language , obsession with kissing women every second he gets the chance , and that cliched scene where he loses someone in his life , and drops to his knee and cries . 
the rest of the cast is very good ; especially martin landau ( as ed's step-father ) , who plays a cute role as the close-to-death old guy that makes all the witty comments . 
jenna elfman is good , ( but a little overemotional ) ; her main problem is that she keeps getting sucked into bad films , i . e . 
can't hardly wait , and krippendorf's tribe . 
woody harrelson , as ed's brother ray , does his usual egg-headed role , with his comic wit as well ( he wrote a book entitled , " my brother pissed on me . " ) 
elizabeth hurley is perfectly cast as the easy slut , and dennis hopper , in a quick cameo as ed's biological father , is a nice choice ( ironically coming after the role he turned down as christof in the truman show ) . 
ellen degeneres stood out as the executive who , after awhile , decides the show must not go on much to the opposite of the head exec , rob reiner's opinion . 
i hate to compare this film to the truman show , but the fact is , i was ashamed to see this movie . 
it felt that i had dropped from college to kindergarten after seeing truman and ed . 
edtv had no real wit or genius ; it was typical hollywood . 
extracting the tv part of the movie , you have the simple plotline : man steals brother's girlfriend , girlfriend leaves town , man gets new slut girlfriend to feel like he can move on , slut breaks up with him , real girlfriend comes back , and voila , you have a romance . 
i got so restless during this movie , i almost walked out . 
the only reason it doesn't drop below a " c " grade is because of the fine supporting performances . 
ad2am " i almost lost my nose . . . and 
i like it . 
i like breathing through it . " 
-jack nicholson , chinatown 
five years after his directorial debut based on stephen king's writings called the shawshank redemption ( 9/10 ) , writer/director frank darabont returns to the big screen with another prison film based on the famous scribblings of stephen king . 
unlike the latter film , this one is a big , long , laborious bore . 
plot : a seven-foot death row inmate is discovered to have secret healing powers . 
critique : this film is slow , drawn-out , boring , uninteresting , unexciting , predictable and topped with a couple of one-dimensional " evil " characters . 
its only positive attribute lies in its actors who all do credible jobs and its message of hope and belief in miracles . 
the real miracle of my night was the fact that i did not fall asleep during this straightforward , unimpressive film about a guy with special powers who we never truly understand or care about . 
of course , much like all other death row cell blocks , this one is filled with decent inmates who all happen to be " misunderstood " , except for one cookie-cutter crazy guy who is evil personified . 
and let's not forget all the guards on death row , who also happen to be angels from the heaven above , except for one cookie-cutter crazy guard who is also evil personified ( and is there any reason why there are about six guards when there appears to be no more than three inmates ? ? ? ) . 
am i supposed to identify with anyone in this film ? 
or even more importantly , am i supposed to give a rat's ass about anyone in this film ? 
well , if i was , i sure missed that boat , because the only thing that i ended up caring about during this entire picture was the obscene amount of fat that tom hanks has been able to burrow under his loose chin . 
furthermore , there is absolutely no reason in the world why director frank darabont needed to take three hours and ten minutes out of anyone's life to present this story . 
in fact , the story is empty within itself . 
i truly did not get anything out of the film other than the fact that there is a guy on death row who has special powers to heal , and we are left wondering if he should still be executed or not . 
wow . 
how interesting . 
the plot's utter predictability is also at fault here with one guess as to whom is to get healed by the gentle monster in this film ( we are told that one certain lady has a tumor early on in the movie ) . 
whip out those thinking caps , kids ! 
hmmm , and i wonder what will happen to those two cookie-cutter " evil " guys who have nothing in their system but hate and negativity . 
hmmmm , now think hard here , boys and girls . 
what a crock ! 
i am guessing that this film was supposed to be some three-hour exercise in spirituality , but unfortunately for me , it was neither spiritual or the least bit engaging . 
in fact , it was one big bore . 
i didn't see the point of the movie , i didn't see the point of the story and i certainly didn't see the point in tom hanks' big double-chin . 
all in all , a bad movie starring some great actors doing solid work , especially michael clarke duncan as the man of the hour , john coffey . 
give that man an award or something ! 
synopsis : a small town thug convinces a dimwitted high-school student to spy on his girlfriend , who is babysitting three unruly kids for their alcoholic parents on a friday night . 
while this is going on , the thug , the father , the boyfriend , and a kid reaching the onset of puberty all have fantasies about the babysitter . 
comments : to say this movie is bad would be quite an understatement . 
i'm not sure what writer and director ferland was hoping to accomplish with the babysitter . 
suspense ? 
family drama ? 
humor ? 
erotica ? 
elements of each of these genres exist in the film , yet it fails to successfully achieve any of them . 
instead , the babysitter is a dull , lifeless movie which manages to bore and ultimately irritate its viewers . 
i suppose this film could have been watchable if it weren't for the fact that the characters are universally unappealing . 
alicia silverstone is completely wasted playing jennifer , the babysitter . 
her character has absolutely no depth at all , and her sole purpose in the movie is to be the object of the other characters' fantasies . 
everyone else in the film seems to be in a competition to see who can stoop to the lowest level by the time the film ends . 
the parents are alcoholics who become increasingly obnoxious as the movie proceeds . 
the father ( played by j . t . 
walsh ) fantasizes about the babysitter ; the mother fantasizes about her husband's best friend . 
none of these fantasy sequences , trust me , are things that need to be seen , but we see them anyway , complete with cheesy , make-out saxophone music . 
the thug , in the meantime , proves that he's evil through his annoying habit of smashing half-empty beer bottles all of a sudden and for no apparent reason . 
the most absurd character , however , is the babysitter's boyfriend who seems catatonically brain-dead . 
the thug , in a manipulative , iago-like manner ( though he doesn't really need to try hard ) , manages to talk the boyfriend into binge-drinking , smoking grass , running away from cops , and playing peeping tom on his own girlfriend in a matter of minutes . 
incredible ! 
 ( of course , the boyfriend's original plan for the evening was , try not to laugh , to sit in an empty diner and read catcher in the rye by j . d . salinger . ) 
if the goal of the babysitter was to be suspenseful , then it fails . 
there are surprisingly few tense moments in this film , and nearly all of them come at the final minute . 
by that time , however , the audience is so tired of the inane characters that no one truthfully cares what happens to any of them . 
no suspense occurs in the dream sequences either because every single one of them is obviously a dream sequence from its inception . 
if the goal of the babysitter was to be humorous , then it also fails . 
i found nothing even remotely funny about the boozing parents who seemed , at times , to be played for laughs . 
if the goal of the babysitter was to be dramatic , then , once again , it fails . 
the characters are one-dimensional and uninteresting . 
finally , if the goal of the babysitter was to be titillating ( the type of film destined to be played ad infinitum on hbo at 2 in the morning ) , then it fails as well . 
the dream sequences aren't erotic ; they are too brief and , outside of one very short scene , contain no nudity . 
i can't completely trash this movie . 
the first 10 minutes or so vaguely resemble an interesting film , and the conclusion sports a halfway decent fistfight . 
the other 79 minutes , though , are a drag . 
silverstone's character , at the end of the movie , turns to her boyfriend and asks " what were you thinking ? " 
i asked myself the same question , having spent 99 cents renting this turkey . 
working in the motion picture industry must be a constant source of frustration for a front-line african american actress like jada pinkett smith . 
despite being one of the freshest talents available , pinkett smith has often been relegated to playing thankless supporting parts ( a low down dirty shame , the nutty professor ) . 
the problem is , of course , that there aren't many good roles available for black women . 
take away the likes of waiting to exhale , set it off , soul food , and eve's bayou , and all that's left is a chance to be someone's girlfriend , a local whore , or a murder victim . 
as a result , for pinkett smith's first opportunity atop the marquee , she is stuck in a stupid , formulaic romantic comedy with the unpromising title of woo . 
actually , woo , the latest directorial effort from daisy v . s . 
mayer ( party girl ) , could have been worse than it is . 
the film offers a few funny ( albeit juvenile ) moments and the on-screen relationship between pinkett smith's woo and tommy davidson's tim is appealing on those rare occasions when the two aren't forced to play it dumb for the sake of an endless barrage of cheap gags . 
unfortunately , huge portions of the movie are insulting to the intelligence of anyone with a triple-digit i . q . 
the situations are painfully contrived , the main characters are lifted right out of sit-coms , and the supporting players are so incredibly stupid that i wondered whether they all participated in some kind of " free lobotomy " lab experiment . 
woo is a spontaneous , energetic young woman who has been looking for love in all the wrong places . 
her latest relationship , with a testosterone-overdosed drug-dealer , came to an abrupt end when she refused to wear a beeper . 
now , her transvestite/medium friend celestrial ( girlina ) predicts that she's about to meet mr . right , and that he'll be a virgo . 
later that day , woo is given an opportunity to go out on a blind date with tim , a shy man with a penchant for neatness and order , who just happens to be a virgo . 
it's not love at first sight , however . 
things get off to a rocky start when tim makes an awkward pass , and they get even worse when the pair arrives at a swanky restaurant to enjoy a " quiet " dinner . 
in the one-hundred year history of motion pictures , there have been a ton of bad " white " movies about mismatched lovers , so i suppose it's only fair that we get a " black " effort of the same low caliber . 
as in all romantic comedies , we know from the beginning that woo and tim are going to end up together . 
the question is , are their courtship rituals entertaining ? 
in a good entry to the genre , the audience becomes caught up in the love story , no matter how familiar it is . 
in woo , the constant reliance upon unfunny , moronic humor sinks the project . 
for those who enjoy spotting continuity gaffes , there's a huge one in woo involving a corvette with a broken window that miraculously repairs itself ( added to that is the mystery of how the car looses its top ) . 
sadly , that's one of the film's most enjoyable sequences , and the entertainment value is entirely unintentional . 
despite exuding charm from every pore , there's little that pinkett smith and davidson can do to save their characters or david c . johnson's script . 
since it misses the mark by so much , a better name for woo might have been whoops . 
there is a scene early in jakob the liar that hints at how much better it could have been . 
the scene is set in a jewish ghetto in poland circa 1944 , where a one-time cafe proprietor named jakob heym is walking resolutely through the streets , fists stuffed into coat pockets . 
to one side of him , residents scavenge for food in the street ; to the other side , german troops beat a group of jews . 
jakob , however , never stops moving . 
it's an efficient , effective set-up for the character , who is clearly nobody's idea of a hero at the outset . 
he is a man who has responded to the horror of his surroundings by withdrawing from them , excising his moral peripheral vision . 
the set-up is critical because fate will turn jakob into a reluctant savior . 
after a visit to a german commandant's office and a moment alone with a turned-on radio , jakob learns that russian troops are quite near . 
when he brings this first news of the war in years to his fellow jews , they become convinced that he must have a radio , which is a punishable offense in the ghetto . 
the good news brings hope to the ghetto ; the everyday specter of suicide vanishes . 
a private man of limited creativity finds himself burdened with creating stories of russian military progress just to keep his neighbors alive . 
this promising story of an ordinary person doing the extraordinary is burdened from the outset by casting : the " ordinary person " in question , jakob heym , is played by robin williams . 
i am of the depressing opinion that williams is growing less assured as an actor in his " serious " roles with every passing year . 
compare his dramatic scenes in the world according to garp and moscow on the hudson with what dreams may come or patch adams , and see how much more mannered he has become ( or , at the very least , how much less sensible at choosing material ) . 
jakob the liar depends on the notion that jakob has to struggle to craft his fictions , but williams always looks like he's struggling _not_ to craft them . 
when he improvises a radio address by winston churchill for ailing 10-year-old orphan lina ( hannah taylor gordon ) , he seems relieved that he can finally get wacky . 
oh yes , and then there's that little girl . 
some viewers will undoubtedly consider the hero's fanciful stories for a young charge too reminiscent of life is beautiful , but those scenes aren't problematic because they're familiar . 
they're problematic because they're jarring and distracting , introducing a cutesy relationship into a film that shouldn't have been about cutesy relationships . 
jakob's character arc may be about his willingness to act for the benefit of others , but there are plenty of others without poor little lina . 
every scene with her feels contrived , pulling jakob the liar away from its central story of hope coming to a previously hopeless people . 
it is a pleasant surprise to find that jakob the liar is a much grittier production than you might expect from a hollywood-ized holocaust , combining the weighty subject matter with dark humor in some effective ways . 
director peter kassovitz , working from jurek becker's novel , crafts some nice scenes between jakob and the other townspeople , and draws solid performances from armin mueller-stahl ( as a once-revered doctor ) and bob balaban ( as a barber drifting into depression ) . 
there are just too many things going on that prove distracting , whether it's the sketchy romanctic angle involving liev schreiber as an earnest former prizefighter , or williams' incongrous presence , or a sweet but utterly irrelevant little girl . 
jakob the liar deals with too delicate a subject for such fumbling , and has too compelling a central character to waste . 
and after one wonderful early scene , you can see the film wasted and fumbled away . 
first troy beyer wrote the critically panned " b . a . p . s . " 
now she makes her directorial debut , writing , directing , and starring in this sub-par film about women talking about sex . 
though not without redeeming qualities , this film is bad . 
the basic story follows three single friends -- jazz ( beyer ) , lena ( randi ingerman ) , and michelle ( paget brewster ) -- in their search for love . 
jazz has an idea for a local talk show ; it would feature women talking about sex and dating . 
she and her friends make a demo tape of interviews with the women of miami . 
the film itself is sprinkled with these real interviews throughout , both as part of the plot and as commentary on the situations of the main characters . 
the fact that they are real provides a refreshing break from some of the more melodramatic moments in the film . 
there are several moments of bad acting , corny dialogue , and emotional overextension . 
in a low-budget independent film from a first-time director , these faults can sometimes be forgiven , if the screenplay is fresh and solid . 
that is not the case here . 
the script suffers from random plot developments . 
there are four or five of these turns in the plot , each one raising the question " where did that come from ? " 
at one point , a character has a lifelong reconciliation with her mother . 
we are supposed to be moved , but since the scene is completely un-led-up to , we really don't care if she and her mother get along . 
we've never seen her mother before . 
we never see her again . 
who cares ? 
what's worse , these sudden developments are supposed to engage our sympathy . 
at another point , a character announces that she can't have children . 
apparently , this is devastating . 
we wouldn't know this because she never talked about having kids before , but we are nevertheless expected to be devastated for her . 
the scene feels like an afterthought , its emotion manipulative and shallow . 
these scenes grow worse and worse , culminating in an absurd climax . 
two scenes were played with such overwhelming melodrama that i found myself laughing . 
one scene is a lover's spat between two minor characters . 
the other has the main characters expressing their copious grief by cleaning house in wails of despair and clouds of ajax . 
thinking on these scenes , it is hard for me to admit that the film has redeeming qualities . 
but it does . 
first , it is original . 
we men often wonder what women talk about when they are alone in groups , and i imagine this film gives me a pretty good idea . 
it's something i don't think has been the subject of a film . 
second , the interviews of the miami women are sincere . 
taken together , they form a mosaic picture of miami beachwalkers and bistro diners . 
the mosaic is made of sound bites and stereotypes , but each tile is some woman's real experience . 
neither the picture of women , nor their picture of men , is truly representative , but the point is that both sets of generalizations are telling in their own way . 
at some level , the stereotypes that emerge can be called true . 
i can imagine some people liking this film when its characters talk about their " likes , dislikes , skills , and thrills , " but on the whole , it's pretty bad . 
and that makes it even harder to forgive the bad acting , corny dialogue , and emotional overextension . 
i'll give beyer one more strike , and then she's out . 
rated r ( almost got an nc-17 ) for explicit sexual dialogue and nudity . 
susan granger's review of " mulholland drive " ( universal focus ) 
whatever david lynch is selling , i'm not buying . 
from the writer/director of " blue velvet " and " twin peaks " comes another dark , mysterious thriller that opens with an automobile accident on mulholland drive , the serpentine street that twists high in the hollywood hills . 
dazed , a beautiful brunette ( laura elena harring ) emerges and stumbles down a hill , slipping unobserved into a '30s-style apartment as the tenant leaves for a trip . 
the next morning , a dewy blonde ( naomi watts ) from deep river , ontario , arrives in la with dreams of stardom in her suitcase . 
her aunt owns the apartment and the two women meet . 
the brunette has amnesia so the blonde tries to help her discover her identity along with her latent lesbian lust . 
meanwhile , a hotshot director ( justin theroux ) , whose wife is in bed with the poolman , is forced to cast a certain actress in his new film and there's an assassin ( mark pellegrino ) roaming the city . 
the tortuous paths of these various characters - and others named cookie , coco and cowboy - intersect at various points but the plot remains elusive because , midway through the story , lynch has the brunette and blonde play two different women in an alternate reality , leaving a huge wad of cash , a blue metallic key , a paralyzed mogul and a lot of questions that go unanswered . 
elena harring and particularly naomi watts are gifted actresses , effectively making the subtle switch . 
the same cannot be said for former m . g . m . 
dancer ann miller who's stiff and self-conscious , speaking - like most lynch players - in staccato tones . 
on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " mulholland drive " is a frenzied , frustrating 4 . originally designed as an episodic tv pilot , this surreal triumph of suspenseful style over substance is packaged as a puzzle with several of the key pieces left out . 
georges polti once wrote a paper called " the thirty-six dramatic situations , " in which he asserted the fact that all drama could be defined by no more than thirty-six different situations . 
this may be the modern restatement of the biblical prophecy from ecclesiastes , " there's nothing new under the sun . " 
the faculty , the latest movie by from dusk till dawn director robert rodriguez , certainly proves this in typical hollywood fashion . 
there's not a measureable fraction of original material in this unworthy outing . 
drawing elements from both the puppet masters and invasion of the body snatchers , screenwriter kevin williamson ( of scream 2 credit ) gives us a horror tale set in middle america ( ohio ) one eventful fall . 
making use of a cast of unusually stock characters , williamson designs an alien invasion that will not be done independence day-style but rather " through the back door . " 
parasitic aliens take over the faculty of a run-down high school and soon have infested most of the student body , leaving it up to the ensemble of principal characters to win the day . 
the lack of gusto is the movie's major stumbling block . 
even though the genre has seen movies that have a lack for quality such as this , they've been saved by an energetic approach . 
this casts more than a shadow of a doubt on williamson's ability , who enjoyed success with the wes craven-directed scream but couldn't pull anything solid in for this outing or i know what you did last summer . 
although he designs the faculty with more of a sci-fi bent than his typical slasher picture , it still comes down to the same results : throw the stock characters in a steel cage match and see who comes out alive . 
on that level , the main roles are played by virtual unknowns . 
only the recognizeable elijah wood ( deep impact ) is at the front ; other than that , the screen veterans are saved for the minor roles of the alien teachers . 
perhaps williamson has it in mind to champion these up-and-comers to the fame that their scream and last summer counterparts achieved ; but to do that , they'd all need to star in their own wb television show about the horrors of puberty a la " dawson's creek . " 
needless to say the acting is far from top notch , nor does necessity ask that it should be . 
there is a moment or two of genuine horror , but unfortunately williamson and rodriguez did not take the story far enough in the sci-fi direction to make any use of it . 
in sum , the faculty was just one long shot that did not pay off . 
the most popular trend of the last couple of years has been the twist ending . 
watching one of these movies , everything seems to make sense until suddenly you are blown away by an unexpected surprise . 
when the film ends , there is a moment of confusion , then recollection , then some more confusion , then possibly a second viewing for clarification . 
this is a description of an ideal twist that perfects everything it sets out to do and more . 
good surprises make movies fun to watch . 
then there are the bad twists . 
you either know what is going to happen ten minutes into the movie ( i'm talking about you reindeer games ) or you did not guess the ending because it is so outrageously stupid . 
screwed perfectly suits the latter description . 
what starts out as a dumb guilty pleasure which should be fun to mock with a group of friends ends with a complex finale with way too much going on . 
by the writers of man on the moon and the people vs . 
larry flynt , scott alexander and larry karaszewski leave milos forman behind and take a stab at film directing . 
whoops . 
screwed is an inane christmas carol gone berserk with few genuine laughs and many acting embarrassments . 
norm macdonald stars as willard filmore , a hard working chauffeur who just wants a little respect from his rich , old , insidious boss , miss crock ( elaine stritch ) . 
when he overhears her plans to fire him on christmas day , willard is convinced by his best friend rusty ( dave chapelle ) to kidnap crock's beloved dog and hold it for a ransom of one million dollars . 
too excited to pay any attention , the hapless losers' plan goes awry when the dog escapes and returns home . 
now crock thinks willard has been kidnapped and the two friends , realizing they can make even more money , decide to stage the fake kidnapping . 
of course , everything that could go wrong does . 
the first forty-five minutes of screwed is harmless entertainment - a guilty pleasure that should be enjoyably bad . 
but the convoluted script eventually builds into a disaster that is impossible to bear . 
the more idiotic these characters get , the more reckless the script becomes . 
at one point , i wanted to get out of my seat and yell at these characters : " no , you idiot ! " 
i'm not just talking about willard and rusty , who were extremely annoying , i'm also talking about the cops in this film . 
a monkey could have solved this case within an hour but these guys ( headed by murder one's daniel benzali ) were just too clueless to forgive . 
they give real cops bad names . 
also poor danny devito apparently does not know how to turn down a role these days . 
looking almost identical to his penguin in batman : returns , every time he appeared on the screen i had to shake my head in disbelief . 
he just didn't belong in this movie . 
macdonald and chapelle are veterans at these kinds of movies but devito made the film much worse than it already was , gross out humor is certainly not his forte . 
if you're a fan of norm macdonald's other chaotic comedy , dirty work , you might actually love this near-sequel . 
otherwise , don't get screwed out of your hard-earned money . 
 " spice world " is just one long promotional film for the british girl band the spice girls . 
sure there's a hint of humor in there every once in a while . 
actually , there's a couple of pretty good jabs at the spice girls . 
but overall , who cares ? 
not me . 
if you don't know by now , the spice girls sing songs of love and friendship and responsibility and girl power , yet dress like streetwalkers from a lower middle class neighborhood . 
in " spice world " they ride around in their big tour bus , whining about having to do photo shoots and give interviews . 
amazingly , all the talk they do about keeping commitments and upholding responsibilities only really applies to fun things , things they want to do , not things they are required to do to keep earning money . 
and they keep babbling about " girl power " when they should really be talking about " cleavage power " . 
i mean , if all it takes is girl power , then why are they only one thread away from bursting out of their skimpy outfits ? 
the film is pg , but really with only some very minor dialogue changes and scene extentions , you'd have yourself one raunchy adult film . 
by the way , there's something in the opening credits which says " based on an idea by the spice girls " . 
wow , they got idea credit ! 
i certainly wish that was a new trend in hollywood . . . 
giving credit for simply having the thought " say girls , let's make a movie ! " 
the supporting cast fares well . 
roger moore ( the real james bond ) mockingly plays the cliche-spewing " chief " of the spice girls , and darn it all , he's fun to watch . 
mark mckenney also is good as a screenwriter trying to pitch film ideas to the band's manager ( richard e . grant ) . 
one question though : george wendt ? 
you'd think that " spice world " would envoke one of two reactions in people . 
if you like the spice girls , you'll like them even more afterwards . 
and if you can't stand them ( like me ) , then " spice world " will really make you sick . 
oddly , the audience i saw the film with , roughly 50 twelve year-old girls , sat in silence for the entire film . 
well , not the two who sat directly behind me . 
they kept muttering " this is stupid " over and over again . 
maybe there is hope for humanity after all . 
[pg] 
i read the new yorker magazine and i enjoy some of their really in-depth articles about some incident . 
they will take some incident like the investigation of a mysterious plane crash and tell you what happened in detail . 
it becomes a real education in what agencies get involved and how theories are suggested , and what kind of pressure the investigators are under , and just about any other aspect you can think of . 
frequently i get the feeling that the article sounded exciting , but i am being told in more detail than i really wanted to know . 
often i get to the middle of a story and say , ok , it sounded good but i now have invested more time than i am willing to spend on this subject . 
film is a different medium . 
it is a visual medium . 
that slows down the telling of stories much more than people realize . 
i frequently am surprised to find out how short a film script is and how much of the pages are empty space . 
the magazine article and the film script are two very different media . 
the insider is a film adaptation of the vanity fair article " the man who knew too much " by marie brenner . 
it is too much an adaptation of a magazine article slowed to the pace of a film . 
it really verges on being tedious at least at times . 
for years the seven big companies knew that they dealt in an addictive drug that caused a host of unhealthy side-effects . 
but they pretended for the public that it was unproven and they did not really believe it . 
the business was incredibly profitable and the proceeds translated into the political power to squelch and discredit any political movements against big tobacco . 
the tide turned when a former vice-president of one of the companies was convinced by the cbs 60 minutes news team to tell the public how much the tobacco companies really knew about the health effects of smoking . 
the resulting pressure to stop the story created a small civil war at cbs . 
who were the major people involved , what were their motives , how was the story almost killed , how did it get aired anyway ? 
that is the story covered in surprising detail by the insider . 
this all could have been enthralling , but it is not the sort of thing that a stylist like michael mann would be likely to do well . 
and in the end , he failed . 
to make a long story short , the film needed a director who knew how to make a long story short . 
the film opens with the cbs 60 minutes team in iran with the assignment to interview a terrorist . 
we get a taste for their personal style and how they get the upper hand . 
they go from being one newsman blindfolded at the hands of the terrorists to the actual interview with mike wallace ( played by christopher plummer ) . 
there the news team under producer lowell bergman ( al pacino ) are ordering around the terrorists and getting away with it . 
this seems to have nothing to do with the main line of the story , but later when the tobacco industry is so much harder to manipulate than committed terrorists , we have a wry irony on who really has clout in the world . 
terrorists can grab the headlines , but the tobacco companies have the real position of power . 
incongruously intercut with the iran interview sequence we see jeffrey wigand ( russell crowe ) dejectedly returning from work to his home . 
we discover that he has been fired and his career brought to a complete halt unexpectedly . 
he had been a very profitably rewarded vice-president in charge or research and development at brown and williams tobacco ; now he was unemployed and needed money to support his family . 
rather than support him his wife liane ( diane venora ) demands of him what are they supposed to do for income . 
meanwhile the 60 minutes team trying to do a story on fires started by cigarettes have obtained some data they do not understand . 
they offer wigand $12 , 000 just to interpret the data . 
wigand's severance agreement swears him to secrecy about anything he knows about tobacco dealings , but he is reluctantly he stretches the severance terms . 
he is willing to read some documents from another tobacco company and interpret them for bergman . 
in spite of the secrecy , wigand's former employers seem immediately to know wigand is talking to 60 minutes and he is warned off by former boss thomas sandefur played michael gambon in an all too brief but deliciously sinister role . 
and so the game begins . 
wigand is irate at his negative treatment for what he still considered continued to be loyalty to his agreement and his former employer . 
meanwhile someone is playing very rough with wigand and his family . 
the film examines wigand and the pressures placed on his family as they are caught between two powerful giants . 
wigand has always wanted to make tobacco safer and has natural sympathies with getting the story out . 
he and his family are assaulted psychologically and financially by the giant tobacco industry that had never lost a legal fight . 
al pacino is given top billing but the wigand family is the core of the insider . 
the story is told slowly and in just a bit too much meticulous detail . 
the film is 157 minutes and is an extremely demanding film for the audience . 
the musical score by pieter bourke , lisa gerrard , and graeme revell is one of the worst in recent memory . 
it puts ominous chords under some scenes and using voice in ways that become a distraction that gets in the way of the storytelling . 
also disturbing is the casting of christopher plummer as mike wallace . 
plummer and wallace are such different types and wallace is too well-known for even so good an actor as plummer to play him convincingly . 
this film might have been a really engaging experience under another director's control . 
michael mann was the wrong person to helm this film and the insider lacks intensity because of his style . 
i rate it a 4 on the 0 to 10 scale and a 0 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
i should have known , damn it , i should have known . 
ewan mcgregor - codename : " eye " - is pointing a high-tech rifle-ly gadget at a fat , bald business-oriented american engaging in illicit sexual activities in a window across the street . 
we get the requisite electro-green through-the-sight view . 
we the audience , seeing a high tech rifle-ly gadget , of course think that eye is going to assassinate the target , but instead , he pulls the trigger and the rifle takes twenty or so hazy , low-quality photographs , which eye then proceeds to fax and e-mail to everyone in his target's office . 
all right , so thirty seconds in , i was slightly befuddled by this seemingly pointless rifle/camera , but i was still open minded . . . 
maybe there's a really good reason for it . 
i've got reason to believe , you see - i admire a lot of ewan mcgregor's previous work . . . 
and he's obi wan ke- friggin-nobi for god's sake . 
and director stephan elliot's last movie priscilla , queen of the desert was a quirky little delight . 
there's some genuine talent involved here . 
i think at the twenty minute mark , there was still a spark of hope in my heart . 
eye has been assigned to investigate the leader of his organization's son ( i still have no idea what this organization was - british intelligence ? 
national spy ring ? 
private investigation ? ) , who is apparently stealing from his trust fund . 
he has received his assignment from k . d . 
lang , through an elaborate and expensive teleconferencing briefcase . 
when eye tracks his target to an expensive- looking secluded house , he witnesses a mysterious and beautiful woman ( ashley judd ) take a knife out and proceed to stab the poor bastard . 
ok , that's odd , i think to myself , this could be interesting . 
then she starts to cry , and through her tears exclaims " merry christmas , dad ! " 
for the first time . 
so begins our tale of obsession . . . 
or . . . something . 
the rest of the movie involves ewan mcgregor's eye character following ashley judd around to every corner of the united states , totally and completely obsessed by this woman from afar . 
throughout his entire professional life , he has been a voyeur ; so when he falls for someone , the only way he can handle it is to watch and drool through telescopes and cameras . 
fine , that's a lovely premise , i suppose . 
but gosh darn it , if you're going to go there , you better have some sort of explanation . 
and that's precisely where this film fails . 
this is the kind of movie that pisses me off . 
it's an abortion , a collection of half-formed and wasted ideas that amounts to absolutely nothing in the end . 
it pretends it is something that it is not - a surreal and deep psychological character study wrapped in a high-tech thriller . 
here , the filmmakers have confused " surreal " and " deep " with " vaguely unclear " and " crammed full of insultingly obvious metaphors . " 
i never , even for an instant , had the foggiest idea why eye would fall so in " love " with this woman who changes wigs and kills people . 
the movie offers only two explanations , neither of which make a lick of sense . 
explanation number one : the obnoxious presence of eye's imaginary daughter , who was taken away from him by his wife some time ago , tells him he shouldn't leave ms . judd . 
explanation two , which by the end of the film has been beaten into our heads through imagery and dialog and even the title of the movie : " beauty is in the eye of the beholder . " 
whoo hoo , that helps , thanks a bunch , case closed . 
that's as deep as it gets , folks . 
there is an attempt at an explanation in the final minutes , which , instead of tying everything together , ends up being as profound as a clever sixth-grade mad lib . 
there are secondary characters that move in and out of the picture and serve little or no purpose except to make the audience wonder what the hell the point was . 
my personal favorites include : the prison-matron modeled after austin powers' frau farbissina , who apparently taught ms . judd everything she knows about wearing wigs ; jason priestley's awfully played dirty desert vagrant #1 , who tries to emulate dennis hopper a la blue velvet , but fails miserably ; and the cop-who-sees-ashley-fleeing-an-accident-scene-and- then-wants-to-pay-for-sex- but-is-shot . 
each one in this sad little parade is a little more pointless than the last . 
the script pays no attention to the laws of time and space . 
any time one of the frequent location changes occurs , the camera zooms in on a souvenir snow globe , and minutes , weeks , or years could have passed . 
bewilderingly inane stylistic decisions plague the whole affair - one character passes a glass of cognac to another in a slow-motion close-up awash in a lot of bass . 
ewan mcgregor at one point takes up residence in a bell tower just so he could be repeatedly awakened and deafened by the giant bell . 
jason priestly starts philosophizing about sharks , then laughs maniacally . . . 
cut to random guy with eye patch . . . 
iguana out of focus . . . 
iguana comes into focus . 
wow , man . 
when i found out afterward that this film was based on a novel , it came as no surprise to me . 
there are plenty of elements here that , if extended and fleshed out more , would have made for a decent story . 
and i wouldn't be surprised if i found out there was an hour and a half of footage cut from this movie lying in a landfill somewhere , or waiting in the wings for the dvd special director's cut . . . 
not that anything would ever possess me to purchase such a thing to find out what i was missing . 
the last ten or so minutes featured a conversation between the eye and the judd that was supposed to be some sort of revealing exposition . 
some guy in the back of the theater was talking on his cell phone , and this time i didn't particularly care all that much because what was happening on the screen was a steaming pile of unholy crap ; the audience around me chuckled and whispered sentiments similar to what i was thinking . 
someone near cell-phone-guy did eventually yell , " shut the hell up ! " , but it was a lot funnier when we thought he was talking to the screen . 
as bad as " mimic " was , it definitly scared me . 
 " mimic " continued the frightening hollywood trend of taking a foreign director who shows a lot of creative ingenuity and style , and completely flushing it when he comes to america to make a movie . 
director guillermo del toro was recently imported from mexico after he made the award winning and inventive horror film " cronos . " 
that movie worked because it took an unconventional story , unique characters and well written plot and dialogue to create a truly scary movie . 
in " mimic " , del toro doesn't bother to give us anything original . 
the plot is a stupid combination of " aliens " meets " species " meets " jurassic park . " 
the characters have been recycled from a few hundred other movies . 
there's nothing new in " mimic " . 
it's just a bunch of old tricks that rarely work . 
at the end of the movie , you're stuck wanting your money back . 
maybe the worst thing about the movie is that del toro followed another annoying trend of recent movies : he forgot to turn the lights on . 
i don't understand why suspense movies lately have to follow the " seven " trend and be set in dark , dank areas . 
watching " mimic " i was tempted several times to yell at the screen " turn the lights on ! 
the switch is to your right ! 
use common sense ! 
just do it ! 
you'll be able to see the monster in the corner ! " 
there's a scene where mira sorvino is standing in subway station while the lights are flickering on and off . 
it looked like the light operator was having a seizure , and sorvino didn't even notice - she just stood there looking like she was having deep thoughts . 
 " hmmm . . . . 
i think bean soup would be good for dinner tonight . " 
 " mimic " has a lot of incidental shock tactics ( boo ! 
just kidding ! ) and follows them up with the real scare , but nothing in this movie scares you . 
the audience in the theater never jumped during suspenseful moments ; i think they were bored , too . 
i shouldn't blame del toro . 
he isn't the first successful foreign director to come to hollywood and make a bad movie . 
hong kong director john woo made two of the best action films of all time , " the killer " and " hard boiled " then came to america to make the stupid " broken arrow . " 
french directors luc besson ( " la femme nikita " ) and george sluizer ( " the vanishing " ) followed woo's lead and made dumbed down versions of those movies . 
robert rodriguez , who directed the terrific low budget " el mariachi " came to hollywood and directed the horrible , high-budget " desperado . " 
i don't know why a foreign director who shows such talent in his country can't make a good american movie . 
woo finally broke through and made " face/off " , but it still isn't up to par with his earlier films . 
i get the feeling a hollywood producer sits in his office , chews on a big smelly cigar and says to the director , " welcome to america ! 
i bet you must be tired after being on that boat for so long . 
do you speak english ? 
now , i know you think you've made good movies in the past , but now you're in america , so things are a little different here . 
just remember what the american audience always wants , and you'll be fine . 
they want to see at least one big breasted woman , characters that they've seen a thousand times before ( because change scares americans ) , and you always need a cheesy feel-good ending to wrap things up . 
if you don't make that kind of movie , you'll be shining my shoes in no time . " 
darren ( jason biggs ) , wayne ( steve zahn ) , and j . d . ( jack black ) have been best friends since the fifth grade . 
like the three musketeers , they've been together through thick and thin . 
but , when darren meets an attractive , but cold-blooded and manipulative , psychiatrist , judith ( amanda peet ) , the long time friendship is placed in danger . 
it's up to wayne and j . d . to rescue their best friend in " saving silverman . " 
 " silverman " has its heart in the right place , but the story , by newcomers hank nelken and greg depaul , is too lightweight to sustain the tale of the battle for darren's soul . 
based on their experience of a friend making a major marital mistake , the story is centered on the three , life long amigos . 
when wayne introduces darren to judith , he doesn't realize that he has opened a pandora's box of disaster for himself and j . d . judith was once in a relationship where her boyfriend was the dominant figure until he died in a kick boxing match . 
since then , she has sought a new mate - someone she can boss around and mold into her own vision . 
enter darren silverman . 
once they realize the magnitude of their error in judgement , wayne and j . d . try everything they can , including threats and bribery , to get judith to free darren . 
nothing works until the duo come up with a plan - kidnap judith and get darren back together with the girl he called his one and only , pretty sandy perkus ( amanda detmer ) . 
the only problem here is that sandy is about to take her vows to become a nun . 
things spiral out of control as judith repeatedly attempts to escape while wayne and j . d . play cupid . 
the boys even bring their idol , neil diamond , into the picture to help resolve things . 
thinking about it , this is a real mishmash of contrivance and coincidence that is held together solely by the comedic efforts of steve zahn and jack black . 
the pair is able to elicit the film's only laughs with their goofy antics and child-like behavior . 
they are relegated to providing slapstick guy humor and the two are more than equal to the task . 
steve zahn has been steadily honing his comedic acting skills and gives some complexity to wayne , the " brains " of the gang . 
jack black has the big-guy moves of a chris farley , giving j . d . an amusing physical presence . 
the neat thing is that the two actors are able to get fresh laughs from stale material . 
the rest of the cast doesn't fare as well , though . 
jason biggs is the straight man of the musketeers and gets very little to do ; though having watched his previous films ( " american pie " and " loser " ) i'm not sure what attraction biggs actually has . 
amanda peet is caustic as the manipulative judith . 
there is no humanity at all to her character as she single-mindedly strives to recreate darren into her mind's image . 
she's a monster that wayne and j . d . must defeat to save their friend . 
unfortunately , there is no dimension to her character . 
amanda detmer brings nothing ( or gets nothing ) as darren's one and only . 
r . lee ermey , as the psychotic coach , made a bad decision taking this role . 
tune-meister neil diamond gives a good-natured cameo perf as the boys' idol and savior . 
production values are on par with the rest of the film - lackluster and non-involving . 
director dennis dugan has a track record for broad comedy with films like " big daddy " and " beverly hills ninja , " but falls flat with " saving silverman . " 
the 2001 movie year has yet to provide us with a " good " film to sink our teeth into . 
at least , with " saving silverman , " we get a couple of funny perfs from zahn and black . 
too bad that the rest of the film lacks their level of humor . 
kick boxing deaths and conflicted nuns are not the makings of a good comedy . 
i give it a c- . 
 " an intimate , character-driven drama about a troubled youth at a crossroads in his life , " read the press notes for _reach_the_rock_ . 
i'm not really sure what film that statement is describing because those words bear little resemblance to the slow , completely uninvolving bore i saw--at least , it certainly does not describe what goes on for most of the film . 
alessandro nivola plays robin fleming , a troubled , directionless 21-year-old who has a penchant for breaking storefront windows in a small town . 
police sergeant phil quinn ( william sadler ) takes him in , and what ensues for the first 70 minutes is a tedious series of sneak-outs and sneak-ins where robin slips out of his jail cell , breaks a window , then returns , all without quinn ever noticing . 
also added to the pointless proceedings is some would-be humorous shenanigans involving quinn's dimwitted deputy ernie attempting to engage in clandestine patrol car sex with his girlfriend donna ( karen sillas ) . 
with a half hour ( if even that long ) remaining , director william ryan and writer john hughes ( yes , john hughes of '80s youth films and _home_alone_ ) finally approach something close to a point . 
turns out robin still pines for his high school sweetheart lise ( brooke langton ) , who has long gone on with her life , and hughes's main concern at long last reveals itself as a tired " live in the present and for the future " message . 
most moviegoers , however , will likely be asleep by that time . 
wide awake , however , is the cast , who individually tackle their showcase dramatic scenes with energy and skill--thus revealing the _real_ purpose behind this listless enterprise : to serve as a series of acting exercises . 
such a glorified workshop may have its rewards for the actors , but it leaves audiences with a booby prize . 
 ( opens october 16 ) 
vampire's is a rude , chauvinistic movie where women are portrayed as pawns of abuse , present only to pleasure men , feed vampires , readied to be bashed or beaten - till one's sensibilities is shocked by the low iq and mentality of this regressive movie . 
to make matters worse , the buffoons that go hunting vampires are all rednecks , and deserve to have their heads bitten off , if not , their bodies carved in half . 
the dilemma of hating the ? heroes' as much as the ? villains' , makes one wish that the ? hand of god' would suddenly appear and blast both parties into oblivion . 
james wood portrays jack crow , a man obsessed with killing vampires , whose soul reason for living is based on revenge ( they killed his parents ) , but this is not a good excuse for being more obnoxious than the vampires . 
as for adam baldwin , he is nothing more than a stooge who is ordered to beat women when the director shouts ? action' , and the script should have been reworked to avoid much offence against the female sex . 
as for the claims that the catholic church created ? dracula' , well that is the second most sacrilegious suggestion , outside the fact that priests and monks bear the brunt of the vampire fury , with enough blood spilt to make the inquisition look tame . 
an awful movie on all counts , my suggestion is to bring back buffy and bury this group of incompetent , rude vampire slayers . 
synopsis : blond criminal psychologist sarah chooses to copulate with greasy tony the mysterious puerto rican rather than bearded cliff the wisecracking neighbor upstairs . 
in the meantime , someone sends sarah rotting flowers , puts her name in the newspaper's obituary column , and kills her cat . 
comments : never talk to strangers , a colossal waste of time , moves slower than molasses in winter to arrive at a conclusion which should be obvious to the audience 20 minutes into the film . 
one wouldn't think that two genuine movie stars , antonio banderas ( evita ) and rebecca de mornay ( hand that rocks the cradle ) , and the acerbic comic genius dennis miller ( " saturday night live " ) would be involved in such a celluloid backfire as this turkey . 
not only are they in it , however , but de mornay executive produced it . 
what was she thinking ? 
never talk to strangers centers upon sarah , a psychologist examining the ill-tempered max , a murderer soon to stand trial . 
she receives a sudden visit from her father which elicits flashbacks of some tragedy in her early childhood . 
two men woo her ; tony the " security consultant " wins her over ( so they have passionate sex replete with cheesy saxophone music ) . 
a lot of psychobabble is thrown around about multiple personality disorder , but the movie asks its audience not to derive the obvious conclusion between mpd and sarah , and instead offers several male characters as red herrings . 
86 minutes , the running time of this cinematic mess , thus , seem like 86 hours . 
a good chunk of never talk to strangers is spent upon sarah and tony . 
why would the career-minded , professional sarah feel attracted to the walking steroid with a black hat called tony ? 
that's one of the film's mysteries which are never answered . 
regardless of motive , de mornay and banderas strip down and have sex several times in what passes for eroticism . 
they also manage to go out before copulating occasionally -- in one of the stupidest scenes of the film , tony takes sarah to a carnival that's * right outside * his dingy apartment ( that way , they can hurry back and have sex quickly ) . 
also , apparently , the weather changes quickly in their locale : they're at this outdoor carnival one day before having sex ; the next day , they're out playing in the snow before having sex . 
the filmmakers attempt to produce a suspenseful plot interspersed with tony and sarah's " character development . " 
someone is out to get poor sarah ( though most of the audience should have figured out who before any of this starts ) . 
rotting flowers , a writeup in the obituary , and a beaten neighbor are just a few of the bad things which happen to her . 
suspense cliche number one also occurs : whenever someone is stalked in thrillers , by any means , if the stalked has a pet , that pet will die . 
oftentimes , to even further the cliche , the murdered pet is a cat ( suspense filmmakers , for some reason , just don't like cats ) . 
sarah , in never talk to strangers , receives a package and , lo and behold , discovers her mutilated cat within . 
suspense at its very derivative ! 
as stated before , never talk to strangers is a poor excuse for a film whose sole purpose seems to be exploiting banderas and de mornay's bodies as often as possible . 
comedian dennis miller is completely wasted here ( he's not given lines that are suitable for his persona ) and doesn't even appear all that much . 
maybe , in a way , he's lucky for that . 
early on in the movie , sarah tells tony , after meeting him in a supermarket , that she had been advised to never talk to strangers . 
allow me to advise that you never watch this stinker . 
a sensuous romantic comedy , about as appealing as your average lightweight tv sitcom . 
there is no special ingredient on the menu for what is dished out , its the kind of stuff i've seen before and was made nauseous by its silly idea of love and what it thinks is funny . 
the film plans to exploit the beauty and sweetness of its delicious star pen ? lope cruz , who plays a brazilian chef with a magical touch for bringing out the spices in her preparations , the aromas just sensually waft from her cooking pot , but who can't get by on looks alone in this transparently predictable story . 
pen ? lope was wonderful in pedro almod ? var's " all about my mother , " but here she is so visible in such a stale story , where she can only smile and tease the audience by having us see a constant barrage of cleavage shots as she bends when cooking , that she somehow looks ridiculous , as if she got egg all over her face . 
the best you can say about her , is that she's not to blame for this picture being so off . 
this exploitation of sex film without even delivering nudity or sex , is in my opinion , worst than a raunchy film that delivers what it says it will . 
the story is all about the love , motion sickness , and cooking ability of isabella ( cruz ) , who is born in bahia , brazil and learns to cook at an early age from her parents' cook . 
to cure her motion sickness , her parents tried every remedy , until they went to a spiritualist who prayed to the goddess of the sea for her cure . 
she is able to control it now as long as she doesn't drive a car , ride elevators , follow in dancing , and is the woman on top when making love . 
in other words , she has to be in control of things . 
in her small fishing town she falls in love with a handsome macho latin waiter , toninho oliveira ( murilo ben ? cio ) and marries him . 
they open up a successful restaurant , where she slaves away in the kitchen but he gets all the credit for it , even though he's a loafer . 
one night she catches him in bed with another girl and decides to leave for san francisco . 
we don't see her in flight , so i can't tell how she handled her motion sickness problem -- unless she flew the plane . 
she visits her friend's apartment monica ( harold perrineau jr . ) , who is a cross-dresser , blending right into the san francisco scene . 
to cast away her love for the irresistible toninho , she calls her spiritualist friend and gets her to cast an irreversible spell , freeing her from ever loving him again . 
her luck changes when a local tv producer cliff ( mark feurerstein ) gets a whiff of her cooking and storms into her cooking class as if were in a spell and presents her with her own live tv cooking show . 
you can really write the script from here on by yourself . . . as the despondent toninho begins to realize what a good thing he had , but things continue to go bad for him : there is a curse he caused on the fishing in his village , there is no chef to replace his wife , as the restaurant is about to close for good . 
so he comes to san francisco , figuring he can charm her again . 
he brings along with him his guitar playing musicians , the ones he used when courting her , when he serenaded her under her window . 
he sees his wife on tv with monica as her sidekick , the yuppie tv producer chasing after her , and sees that she is no longer charmed by him . 
when he sneaks on her tv show set and tries to woo her with his musical group and him singing corny love songs to her , the ratings go up and he's hired as a regular on the show . 
the show gets so big , that the network honchos come onboard , taking it national . 
but they want to change the ethnic flavor of the show , get rid of monica because he's a freak , have isabella cook with tabasco instead of the brazilian peppers she uses , and they change her ethnic dresses to low-cut vanna white type of sexy dresses . 
cliff , her would-be boyfriend , acts creepy and sides with the network big-shots , even though he loved everything she did . 
these tv scenes were not only bad stereotype scenes of tv honchos , they were revolting . 
it was an insult to one's intelligence . 
i'm sure that i'm not spoiling the ending for anyone , when i tell you that toninho reforms his macho ways and together they cook up a meal that breaks her spell of loving him again . 
if the film wasn't terrible enough , monica and cliff act on their attraction for each other and become lovers . 
it was so awkwardly done , that it had no sense of truth or humor to it . 
this film might as well have been made by the same network guys featured in this film , because it doesn't look or feel like an almod ? var film , the type of film it aspired to be , but more like a film that was interferred with from above . 
its more like a futile commercial film that is more annoying than charming and more dull than chic , as it searches for box office heaven . 
let me just start this review off by saying i am a huge fan of professional wrestling and have been for fifteen years . 
i am not too fond of ted turner's world championship wrestling , however , and i am even less fond of it now after seeing this ridiculous excuse for a wrestling movie tonight . 
the plot concerns two losers named gordie boggs ( david arquette , aptly cast as a neandrathal ) and sean dawkins ( scott caan ) who are so obsessed with professional wrestling that they believe everything they see on wcw monday nitro is something more than a flashy show . 
when they finally get to see their hero , wcw world champion jimmy king ( played by oliver platt . 
i personally would have gotten a wrestler to play king ) , he ends up getting screwed over by evil promoter titus sinclair ( a wasted palitaliano , in a role originally meant for real-life wcw president eric bischoff before he was fired and rehired six months later , and if anyone reads this who knows bischoff , they will agree with me that the role of sinclair had his name written all over it ) , they embark on a quest to find him and help him get his title back . 
when they find him , they discover in horror that jimmy king's real life is nothing like it is on wcw tv . 
king is a drunken atlanta native rather than an english king . 
after convincing king that they don't care that his persona isn't real , gordie and sean sneak him back onto wcw monday nitro , after which sinclair agrees to book him in a main event steel cage match for the wcw title and his job back in las vegas at wcw's pay-per-view . 
gee , whiz , there are so many things wrong with this movie , i don't know where to begin . 
yes , i do . . . 
1 . the characters of gordie and sean show you what eric bischoff , wcw president who thought up this project , thinks of wrestling fans . 
he thinks of us as idiots who take everything wrestlers do seriously . 
he actually thinks wrestling fans are dumb enough to believe this is meant to be taken seriously . 
i got news for you , eric : nobody above the age of four is dumb enough for that , this is 2000 , you know , not 1985 ! 
i know he'll probably cover arguments up by saying it isn't meant to be taken seriously but it is , because that's how big an ego bischoff has . 
2 . there was a documentary made in 1998 , wrestling with shadows , that documented the owner of the world wrestling federation , vince mcmahon's screwing bret " the hitman " hart out of the title . 
this movie's storyline is basically a comic rip-off of that plot with the poor man's wayne and garth thrown in . 
eric bischoff is trying to make vince mcmahon look bad with the character of titus sinclair , but any wrestling fan knows titus is more like bischoff than mcmahon , and that vince did what he had to do to bret hart . 
3 . 
the movie's main wrestler , jimmy king , has an english king gimmick and the audience cheered big for him . 
no wrestling fan actually enjoys characters like that in this day and age , we want bad asses today ! 
4 . why make this a comedy , instead of an emotional , rocky-style drama ? 
i know wrestling isn't a sport , but you can still get behind a guy who struggles as a wrestler and finally makes it in the end . 
5 . 
in the movie , gordie starts up an ill-fated romance with nitro girl sasha ( the lovely rose mcgowan . 
what she sees in that freak marilyn manson i'll never understand ) , only to find that she has hospitalized king's trainer for sinclair . 
wouldn't it have been easier to just have them fall in love instead of doing the typical spy-girl-for-the-bad-guy cliche ? 
i hate that . 
6 . 
last , but certainly not least , there was not one single moment in this movie that i could not predict would happen , nor did i laugh once either . 
the world wrestling federation should have been the wrestling company to make the movie , for these reasons : 
1 . they're the better promotion . 
2 . they have better and younger talent , performers and wrestlers . 
3 . 
they give their fans what they want and don't treat them like idiots . 
4 . they're winning the ratings and they're the promotion everybody cares about . 
5 . simply put , they could make a movie a hundred times better , and they could do a wrestling movie the right way . 
the only good thing about this movie was they played outtakes at the end . 
and if i spoiled it for you , good , i saved you from wasting seven dollars . 
battlefield long , boring and just plain stupid 
battlefield earth 
a film review by michael redman copyright 2000 by michael redman 
in my mid-teen years , i had a horrendous re-occurring nightmare . 
behind the wheel of a car , i was driving down a straight road in the middle of a desert . 
no scenery except the horizon line and the converging parallel lines of the highway . 
no matter what i did , the view didn't change : travelling but not getting anywhere . 
each time i awoke in a sweat , terrified . 
you don't have to be carl jung to understand that dream . 
powerless to make changes , trapped in a boring situation with no hope of rescue , this is the stuff of nightmares whether we are asleep or awake . 
this is exactly how you will feel 15 minutes after " battlefield earth " begins . 
for all of its flash and style , l . ron hubbard's science fiction epic is the earliest and best entry for the dullest summer film of 2000 . 
dull " and " stupid . 
in the year 3000 , the psychlo aliens have ruled our planet for 1 , 000 years . 
humans either work as slave labor in mining operations or live as barbarians . 
there's no hope . 
the future is bleak . 
then the psychlo make a mistake and capture feisty jonnie goodboy tyler ( barry pepper ) who organizes a revolution against chief of security terl ( john travolta ) and the alien race . 
it's an archetypal post-apocalyptic plot full of promise . 
considering some of the talent involved and all the millions thrown at the screen , it's difficult to see how it could have failed so miserably . 
but it does . 
the story is so full of holes that it falls apart within minutes of the opening credits . 
are we really supposed to believe that after a millennium of looking for gold , the psychlo never discovered fort knox ? 
or that fighter planes are still in pristine condition after all that time -- and gassed up ? 
or that the cavemen become such expert pilots in seven days that they can easily down the advanced alien ships ? 
or that the psychlo spy cameras somehow don't notice that their slaves are missing for days ? 
travolta prances across the screen hamming it up for all he's worth and is almost entertaining . 
almost . 
the rest of the actors are wooden mannequins trying not to laugh while delivering lines that no person -- " man-animal " or not -- would ever utter . 
some of the film _looks_ good , but it also looks so familiar . 
a race of large hulking ape-like creatures has taken over the world while our cities lie in ruin . 
sound like something charlton heston might be in ? 
the psychlo look like overweight klingons in gear from " dune " . 
the final air battle between the air force fighters and the psychlo ships in their high-tech city is something george lucas might have been associated with . 
it's too loud . 
it's too oppressive . 
it's too slow . 
it's too long . . . far 
too long . 
and on it goes . 
the list of the problems with " battlefield earth " is endless . 
it's difficult to find anything in the film that does work . 
oh yeah . 
the color scheme is nice . 
the real question is how this movie ever got made . 
could it have something to do with the fact that l . ron hubbard was the founder of scientology ? 
and that john travolta is a member of the church . 
that might explain why travolta bought the rights to the novel years ago . 
but it doesn't give us a clue as to why first-time screenwriter corey mandell's atrocious script was used . 
or why the high-profile project was entrusted with roger christian who had never before directed a major film . 
or why no one looked at this thing before it was released and realized there might be problems . 
the one bright spot is that no longer will kevin costner's " the postman " ( which i begrudgingly admit as a guilty pleasure ) be " the " big budget science fiction failure . 
 " battlefield earth " has the honor sewed up . 
often reviewers will recommend that you skip mediocre films and wait for the video . 
that's not the case here . 
you can act now and make the decision to not see it on the big screen or on the small one . 
don't hesitate . 
strike now while the iron is cold . 
hey , i've got a great idea for a movie ! 
ok , here it is : we'll get tim allen to pull angry faces for about two hours or so ! 
what's that ? 
sounds too boring ? 
ok , how about this then : we still have tim allen pull faces for about two hours , but half of them are angry looks and half of them are " i'm in pain ! " 
looks ! 
what's that ? 
that still doesn't sound funny to you ? 
how about if we through in some " ewwwww ! " 
looks ? 
still not funny ? 
if you answered " no , that doesn't sound funny " , then ( ding ding ding ! ) 
you're absolutely correct ! 
for richer or poorer is a moronic farce about a rich married couple ( played by tim allen and kirstie alley ) who seek refuge in an amish community after their bumbling accountant ( wayne knight , best know as newman on tv's " seinfeld " ) gets them in trouble for tax evasion . 
what ensues is a badly scripted and horribly directed 114 minutes of cinema hell . 
what makes this all wrong is that nobody seems to have what the film needs . 
 . 
 . 
namely , talent ! 
backing up , the married couple is brad and caroline sexton ( allen and alley ) , a popular snobby duo who seem totally in love to everyone else , but in reality are on the brink of divorce . 
just as their marriage seems to be hanging from it's final thread , brad discovers that his accountant , bob lachman ( knight ) , has been engaging in illegitimate deals in the sexton's names . 
the irs catches on , but since everything points back to the sexton's and not lachman , there is nothing much to do . 
 . 
 . 
except run away and join an amish community . 
first time screenwriters jana howington and steve lukanic give us a couple of chuckle-out-loud moments , and even some decent laughs here and * way * over there , but there is so much to cringe at in this horribly made film that you'll likely miss the laughs while regurgitating popcorn . 
alley is absolutely unwatchable , and the chemistry between her and allen is about as believable as my chemistry homework from tenth grade ( which , i inform you , was total b . s . ) . 
allen and alley are in no way convincing as tycoons , nor are they very convincing as an amish couple ! 
this entire movie is one bad ill-conceived notion that should have been curtailed from the very beginning ! 
the amish in this movie are also flimsy and unconvincing . 
it's such a trite , stereotypical script that i imagine the actors that were cast ( noticing that they're all predominantly tv figures ) were probably the only ones they could get ! 
bryan spicer's directing doesn't help one bit , either . 
in fact , listing spicer's filmography ( which includes the first " power rangers " movie and the big screen adaption of mchale's navy ) is more of an insult than a r ? sum ? ! 
now that i've pretty much run for richer or poorer into the ground , i will let you in on the best thing about it . 
it bumped seven films up a notch on my " worst of " 1997 movie list . 
that's right , thanks to this film ranking at number 3 for the year's worst , six films are now not seemingly as bad , and a smile like yours , previously inhabiting the number ten spot , now doesn't have to suffer the ridicule of making my bottom ten list . 
if you look at it in that respect , for richer or poorer will end up making someone happy after all ! 
even the best comic actor is at the mercy of his or her material , as this subpar submarine comedy proves . 
down periscope stars kelsey " frasier " grammer as an inept navy captain who is given command of his own ship as part of a corrupt officer's ( james coburn ) plan to get him out of the navy . 
like any lame emsemble comedy , the officer assigns him to a group of misfits like the guy who wants to be kicked out , the fat guy who eats all the time , the beautiful woman who doesn't belong there ( lauren holly ) , the second-in-command who does everything by the book ( rob schneider ) , the crazy old guy who freaks everyone out ( harry dean stanton ) and so on . 
then comes the transparent plotline . 
first grammer has to fix up the delapidated korean war ship the navy has given him , and that comes courtesy a sad sight gag montage that includes a guy with a mop knocking schneider overboard . 
after the ship is fixed up come the early drills , where everyone seems completely inept , like the electrician who can't connect wires so instead lets the current run through himself every time grammer gets on the phone . 
finally , and this covers the final hour of the movie , grammer has to lead his men ( and holly ) to overcome the other ships in a wargames exercise . 
and he has to be a clever rebel to do it , in scenes that stretch all levels of believability . 
first they're singing " louie louie " like a bunch of drunk sailors to throw the radar of the other ship off , then thirty minutes later , they're making whale mating noises to throw the radar of the other ship off . 
the whole while , evil captain coburn is overacting underwater , cursing grammer ( as most people watching the movie probably are too ) . 
it's all predictable without any original humor to redeem it . 
the jokes are right out of " mchale's navy " and other cut-rate sitcoms of the past . 
there's one scene where schneider looks through the ship's pantry in disgust , holds one food can up and announces , " this expired in 1966 ! " 
i yelled back at the screen , " so did these jokes . " 
i watched this movie with the whole family and everyone hated it . 
my mom was so bored she brought out the coupon book midway through and , around the start of the second hour , i started writing my will . 
the blame can't really be placed on the stars , though . 
kelsey grammer is good in this , he just doesn't have anything to work with . 
his character is said to have gotten so drunk one night that he had " welcome aboard " tatooed on his penis . 
grammer probably did something even worse -- got really drunk and agreed to appear in a movie he knew nothing about . 
same for holley ( save the penis part ) , who is likeable in down periscope just because she's so gorgeous . 
as for schneider ( whose character is downright annoying ) , there was nowhere to go but up after surf ninjas , although he's still in the depths of the comedy ocean after jumping the " snl " ship . 
my theory is that down periscope is one of those movies that got the green light before the script was even written as a formula comedy ( " okay , it's police academy in the navy with frasier at the helm and the chick from dumb and dumber . " ) and after everyone was signed on turned into a disaster . 
judging from the video box , most other movie critics agree with me . 
the only quote the down periscope copy writers could dig up came from the prevue channel's jim ferguson . 
i guess even jeff craig from " 60 second preview " ( who said tank girl " kicks butt ! " 
without ever seeing it ) didn't like this . 
movies don't come much more ridiculously titled than " i still know what you did last summer , " but since the movie in question is best described as ridiculous , the title sort of works as a warning . 
more than a silly-sounding mouthful to blurt out to the ticket vendor , this horror sequel's moniker also contains a grievous oversight that anyone who saw the original will be able to spot : what " you " did _last_ summer " you " actually did the summer _before_ last summer , and since " i " knew about it _this_ summer as well as _last_ summer , it's really illogical to say that " i " _still_ know what " you " did _last_ summer . 
the filmmakers would have at least made sense with the shorter " i still know , " the longer " i still know what you did two summers ago " or the appropriate " stupid people getting hacked to bits . " 
that last suggestion is the preferable one since the characters in this film do things that are the polar opposite of smart . 
for example , if your roommate is plagued by terrible nightmares as a result of being stalked and nearly murdered not long ago , would you sneak into her room late at night and hide in the closet , even if it was just to locate and borrow a cute little dress ? 
probably not , but that's precisely what college student karla ( pop diva brandy ) does to best friend julie ( jennifer love hewitt ) , resulting in the first in a long line of phony frights . 
julie , you'll recall , was one of the sole survivors at the end of 1997's surprise hit " i know what you did last summer , " after a slasher with a grudge to bear - it's a _long_ story - began trying to pick off her , her buddies and various others in their coastal carolina village . 
in this installment , the plot picks up as karla wins a trip to the bahamas , and julie , yet racked by guilt , decides that maybe a tropical getaway will help ease her mind . 
yeah , right . 
their island paradise has room , of course , for one more in the form of the still-alive killer ( muse watson ) from the first film . 
he sports the same gorton's fisherman get-up , a heavy hat and rain slicker that mask his identity , but why he's still trying to stay anonymous is a mystery this movie never solves . . . 
though i suppose his hook-hand would look funny protruding from the sleeve of a leisure suit . 
in a sense , that's the movie's glaring flaw - everybody knows who the bad guy is , thus evaporating the level of paranoid tension nicely sustained by its prequel . 
the murders and attempted murders in that film were vivid and scary , but trey callaway's derivative " i still know " screenplay makes the fisherman just as dumb as his pretty potential victims . 
when julie lays blissfully unaware in a tanning bed , giving him a perfect chance to wreak vengeance once and for all , what does he do ? 
he twist-ties the lid shut and cranks up the uv rays - you'd think he'd want her gutted now instead of a skin cancer victim later . 
even prequel " summer " lovers might balk at how little there is here beyond sporadically amusing absurdity and a few neat-o shots of blood flowing from toned teenage flesh . 
the innovative gallows humor that scribe ( and " scream " wunderkind ) kevin williamson injected into " i know " 's unfolding story is sorely missed , replaced with the grating antics of a white rastafarian cabana boy who smokes weed and tosses off slang like " yo " ; you'll cheer - not shriek - when he ends up with a pair of hedgetrimmers firmly implanted in his chest . 
if " i know what you did last summer , " however effective , was just the kind of movie that those subversive " scream " flicks poked fun at , then the deadly " i still know what you did last summer " deserves a full-blown roasting on " mystery science theatre 3000 . " 
synopsis : a humorless police officer's life changes when he befriends a super-smart , super-adorable golden retriever named einstein and a cute , young blond scientist . 
unfortunately , einstein shares a psychic link with a bigfoot-sized ape-creature trained by the blond scientist to be an unstoppable killing machine , and this rogaine-nightmare is loose and after the dog and the girl . 
meanwhile , a group of white , chain-smoking , gun-toting nsa agents in sunglasses and business suits tries to kill all the other characters in the movie . 
comments : watchers reborn , a cheaply made direct-to-video turkey , is the fourth sequel to the first film version of dean koontz's bestselling novel watchers . 
technically , this should have been called watchers v , but it seems that this cycle of horror movies , much like many other sequel-crazy film series , has decided to drop the numbers from the titles . 
 ( even the star trek movies dropped the numbers from their titles after star trek vi . ) 
the makers of watchers reborn probably want to fool unsuspecting video rental customers into thinking this might be a good movie instead of a crappy fifth installment of a film series which should have died a long time ago . 
this really isn't a good movie . 
have you ever rented a movie and recieved a sinking feeling about it when you watched the previews preceding the feature presentation ? 
well , any hope a viewer may have had , perhaps because he is a fan of novelist dean koontz or actor mark hamill , will be dashed by the time he's seen the trailers tagged on before the beginning of watchers reborn . 
they're awful . 
these commercials cover films like a strange stripper movie called shadow dancer , some weird crap about a dead indian , teens , and wolves , and an " action " movie called detonator starring scott baio . 
scott baio ! 
what idiot dreamed this movie up ? 
after surviving these abysmal trailers , the person finally gets to watch the movie he rented : watchers reborn . 
 " maybe it won't be * that * bad " he may say to himself . 
 " perhaps , just perhaps , the bottom-of-the-barrel film fluff advertised before it is greatly misleading . 
watchers reborn , after all , is based on that cool book dean koontz wrote a decade ago . 
it stars mark hamill -- luke skywalker himself from that terrific star wars trilogy . 
lou rawls is even in the mix ! " 
unfortunately , the force is certainly no longer with mark hamill ( he looks very sick here ) , and this movie shares only basic plot elements with watchers , the book . 
the latter is really too bad . 
koontz is a hack writer producing way too many thrillers for his own good , but he is still my favorite hack writer . 
koontz has a writing style which is succinct and suspenseful . 
people who read many of his books , however , often complain of repetitive plot devices . 
it's definately not a koontz book if there isn't ( 1 ) a psychic , ( 2 ) a super-intelligent dog , or ( 3 ) a psychotic killer who likes ripping out people's eyeballs . 
watchers has all three devices , which may explain why it's arguably the most popular of koontz's books . 
the idea behind koontz's novel , though highly implausible , is very interesting . 
basically , a biological war machine is created : a smart dog can be released in battle , track down its target , and then relay the target's position , psychically , to a large creature designed to kill in hand-to-hand combat . 
silly but kind of neat too . 
i'm sorry . 
i don't mean to ramble on about matters not directly linked to watchers reborn , the movie . 
i suppose i just don't want to talk about the movie itself . 
this turkey is really cheesy . 
no one in this movie can act , including mark hamill , and it's difficult seeing the aged luke skywalker stumble around trying to be the hero . 
the cheese factor is only increased when he's involved in an implied sex scene with the blond biologist / geneticist / zoologist / whatever-the-f * * k-she's-supposed-to-be whom he befriends . 
mercifully , the filmmakers opted not to do nudity . 
to be honest , the only half-convincing actor in the film is the golden retriever who plays einstein . 
you know a movie is bad when a dog outacts all of its human counterparts . 
i find it difficult to relate how laughable the action sequences are in this movie . 
and the creature ! 
yes , the creature out after poor einstein is some guy in a furry suit and a mask which poorly imitates the werewolves in the howling . 
this creature is shot about 500 , 000 times , but it's okay . 
the creature has the ability to kill people by swinging his arms around and pushing . 
oh , he can also rip body parts off , allowing for many scenes of fake hands and arms being thrown around . 
cheesy gore . 
that's another main element of watchers reborn . 
it has many bloody scenes which are thoroughly unconvincing and only increase the film's campiness rather than its suspense . 
ultimately , i gave watchers reborn a star and a half because bad horror / sci-fi film buffs may get a few kicks out of the film's silliness ( though this film will tax even their patience -- it's an 83 minute film , but it feels like four hours ) . 
also , i hate to admit , i have survived far worse than this . 
anyone who has sat through the christopher lambert and natasha henstridge debacle known as adrenalin : fear the rush will know what i mean . 
finally , i couldn't help but think that watchers reborn would work well as " bot fodder " for the creative folks behind one of my all-time favorite shows , " mystery science theater 3000 . " 
this thought alone helped me survive watchers reborn with a smile on my face . 
rated r , watchers reborn contains dozens of blood-spattered bodies and unconvincing gore . 
it also has violence , obviously . 
i wouldn't recommend it for the little kids , but i'm sure even young teens would make it through this movie okay . 
instead of watching this film , however , i recommend reading koontz's book . 
trust me , it'll be time much , much better spent . 
you should have heard the old guys in the crowded bathroom following the " odd couple ii " sneak preview . 
they were as happy a group of men as i've ever encountered . 
 " what a great movie , " exclaimed one gent at the urinal , " everything was so true ! " 
 " yeah , " laughed a man standing next to him , " i drive as slow as that one guy did . 
my kids give me holy hell for it ! " 
 " and peeing is a big part of my day , just like with felix , " chuckled another fellow , as he fastened his trousers up around his nipples and prepared to rejoin his wife . 
if you're over 60 and in the habit of driving at least 20 miles per hour below the posted speed limit , " neil simon's the odd couple ii " may be just the film for you . 
others will likely be less charitable . 
while " the odd couple ii " is amiable enough , neil simon's shockingly lazy screenplay feels like a slapped-together tv reunion show , suffering from wheezing situation comedy set-ups and jokes straight out of the borscht-belt . 
simon , once the toast of broadway , has apparently shifted his sights from the great white way to the neighborhood multiplex in branson , missouri . 
the contrived story , involving the marriage of their kids , provides the excuse for a reunion between oscar madison and felix unger , who haven't seen each other in 17 years . 
the former roommates fly into california from their respective homes for the wedding and , quite literally , run into one another at the airport . 
they take off in a rental car for the ceremony in san molina , get lost and have a series of " wacky " adventures on the road . 
jack lemmon and walter matthau reprise their roles as felix the neat freak and oscar the slob . 
while there is an undeniable chemistry between the pair , the impact of their reunion is lessened by the fact that they've headlined three films together since 1993 : " grumpy old men , " " grumpier old men " and " out to sea . " 
still , the two veteran actors are fun to watch . 
matthau , whose magnificently rumpled face looks like a big pile of laundry with eyes , has a field day as oscar , the crown prince of the curmudgeons . 
lemmon , looking pastier than usual , is fine as the ever- annoying felix , who still punctuates his chronic whining with occasional allergic honks of " phnah ! 
phnah ! " 
despite their bickering , the characters have real affection for each other , providing a welcome respite from the non-stop barrage of insults that marked their previous three films together . 
unfortunately , matthau and lemmon's charm isn't enough to compensate for simon's hack script , which wouldn't pass muster even on a upn sitcom . 
one contrived situation follows another , lathered with enough stale one- liners to supply a dozen would-be comics on open-mike night at the local comedy club . 
if someone drags you to this film and you find yourself as bored as i was , try entertaining yourself by counting the product placements . 
burger king gets one , as does the el pollo loco taco joint , but budget rent-a- car really hits the jackpot . 
between script references to their business and shots of signs and stickers bearing their company name , i couldn't keep count of all the plugs . 
i did , however , keep track of some of the swearing . 
i came up with four " god-damns , " three " shitheads " and two " fucks . " 
the inclusion of those particular profanities seemed odd for a film aimed at an older audience , but the theater full of seniors appeared to have no problem with them , howling like crazy every time the boys let rip with a naughty word . 
it's sad that a writer of neil simon's stature has grown desperate enough to resort to swearing for cheap laughs , but not surprising when you look at what else gets passed off as humor in this tepid exercise . 
one running gag involves oscar and felix's inability to remember the name of the town where the wedding is to be held . 
at one point , the men actually spend 30 seconds just free-associating , riffing off variants of the word " san . " 
the sequence is so creatively bankrupt that it is simply embarrassing . 
one of the oldest maxims of film-going is " beware of movies that use the author's name in the title . " 
 " neil simon's the odd couple ii " is no exception to the rule . 
while the production has enough minor pleasures to warrant a tv viewing on some lazy sunday afternoon , it has no business playing in a movie theater . 
of course , there's a bathroom full of old guys who would strongly disagree with every word i've written , and would probably whip my " young-whippersnapper " ass to boot . 
one thing's for sure , though . 
they'll never catch me in a car chase . 
the army comedy genre has never turned out a truly good movie ( if you don't count neil simon's biloxi blues ) . 
year after year , more predictably cliched military movies come out -- most recently sgt . 
bilko -- and none of them ever manage to be anything more than a rehash of the last . 
i thought stripes would be different . 
with ivan reitman as director , bill murray as star and harold ramis as co-star and co-screenwriter , it seemed like it would be ghostbusters in the army . 
instead , it was a bunch of unfunny crap in the army . 
murray , about as funny and sophisticated here as he was in meatballs , plays a loser cab driver who sees the army as his only chance for success , and convinces his friend ramis to enlist with him . 
so he does , and we get the obligatory drill sergeant from hell , head-shaving and marching/singing sequences , more mind-numbingly stale here than ever . 
the characters are even less original , ranging from underachieving slob john candy to incompetent captain john larroquette . 
all the big name stars in stripes ( and even larroquette ) fall victim to the lame , rehashed material and are never really likeable , murray in particular . 
he only gets a few decent lines in , although those barely-funny one liners pale in comparison to the hilarious peter venkman character he played three years later in ghostbusters . 
he was even better in caddyshack , for crying out loud . 
as with a lot of the late 70's / early 80's comedies , stripes is a completely juvenile movie only a child would like but is so sex- obsessed no child should be able to watch it . 
i'm sure it seems funny on paper to have candy pay over $400 to mud wrestle five beautiful women , but while watching it all that was coming out of my mouth was the admonition " dear god ! " 
every few seconds . 
stripes isn't the playful kind of sex comedy , either . 
most of the time it seems downright misogynistic , as when larroquette uses his telescope to peer into the women's showers or murray lifts a female m . p . 
onto the stove and , with an i-know-what-you-like look on his face , says he's going to give her the " aunt jemima treatment , " which means shoving a spatula under her butt repeatedly . 
you don't want to stick around as the scene progresses and he uses an ice cream scoop on her genital region . 
 " i'm not enjoying this , " the woman protests . 
my sentiments exactly . 
 " mercury rising " has numerous flaws , but there is one that really stands out : its central plot device is unnecessary . 
that's right . 
the major aspect of the film , that which is supposed to make it different from other routine government conspiracy / action flicks could be dropped from the beginning , and the movie would turn out exactly the same , if not better . 
this central device is the fact that a nine-year-old boy is autistic . 
his name is simon , and an evil government bureaucrat named nicholas kudrow ( alec baldwin ) wants him dead because he unknowingly cracked a supersecret government code slipped into the back of a puzzle magazine by its programmers just to see if someone could beat it . 
simon is intended to be the heart and soul of the film , and we are supposed to feel for him because he is a poor handicapped child thrown into a violent , unfair world against his will , with only a renegade fbi agent played by bruce willis to protect him . 
the fact that he is autistic does nothing for the emotional intensity or the plot necessities of " mercury rising . " 
i suppose the original novel upon which the movie was based did much more with this aspect of simon's character and his relationship with willis , but here it is lost . 
miko hughes , the young actor who plays simon , goes through the prescribed motions of being autistic : he walks slowly , drawls his words , kicks and screams when he's touched , and has a hard time looking at other people . 
it's a difficult role for an adult , much less a young child , to play , and unfortunately hughes never convinces us that he isn't playing like he's autistic . 
unlike dustin hoffman's performance in " rain man " or leonardo dicaprio's in " what's eating gilbert grape , " we are always painfully aware that hughes is acting . 
however , unlike " rain man " which used its character's autism in unique and interesting ways to build a credible and touching story , " mercury rising " could go right about its generic , predictable plot with simon being simply a really smart but really shy kid . 
hell , he doesn't even have to be shy . 
in fact , the movie might have been more interesting if he had had a more active role , rather than just being carted around under willis' arm . 
willis' character , art jeffries , is a disillusioned fbi agent who has been removed from undercover work and is now doing menial tasks like listening to wiretaps with rookies who are happy to be doing anything . 
he becomes involved with simon when he is called to check out a murder scene at simon's house , where his father has apparently shot his mother in the back and then committed suicide . 
of course , we know that isn't the way it happened happen because we saw an evil , square-jawed government hitman with a mean-looking crew-cut knock off the parents . 
simon was able to get away , and jeffries finds him hiding in a secret compartment in a closet , which the rest of the chicago police department had overlooked . 
jeffries -- who is accused by several characters at different times of being paranoid although his actions never suggest it -- knows there is something more , and he makes it his personal mission to go against everything and everyone in order to protect simon . 
this is quite a task because that same hitman who knocked off simon's parents is crawling everywhere , attempting to kill simon at the hospital , on the highway , and every other place he goes . 
late in the movie , jeffries is forced to enlist the aid of a pretty young woman named stacey ( kim dickens ) who he meets at a coffee shop . 
of all the hard-to-believe aspects of the movie , this is the worst . 
i can believe in the decency of the human heart , but stacey's character is far too accommodating . 
not only does she agree to watch simon while jeffries runs off to solve the mystery , she lets him into her apartment at two o'clock in the morning when she knows the police is after him , and then lets him leave simon in her apartment which means that she has to forgo a business trip that is desperately needed to pay the rent . 
the grinding squeals of the rusty plot machine are almost overbearing at this point . 
the movie might have been redeemed by some good action sequences , but even here " mercury rising " doesn't rise to the challenge . 
the movie was directed by harold becker , who has made some good suspense films including " sea of love " ( 1989 ) and " malice " ( 1993 ) , but his talent is nowhere to be found in this latest excursion . 
there is one fight on a streetcar between jeffries and another hitman ( played by peter stormare ) that is so ineptly directed , shot and edited , that i had no idea 1 ) exactly where they were on the streetcar , 2 ) who was hitting who , and 3 ) where this hitman came from and how he knew where jeffries and simon were . 
the grand finale takes place on the roof of a tall building , and features a harrowing ( yawn ) scene where simon walks along the very edge of the building , not because he has to , but because it's more suspenseful that way . 
taken as a whole , " mercury rising " is an tepid , confused movie that lacks style , wit , and any traces of a sense of humor . 
usually willis brings his personal brand of understated humor to his roles , but here he is too straight and serious . 
this is because the movie wants to be an action flick and a heartfelt drama at the same time , but it ends up failing on both fronts . 
maybe the book was better , but the way it's handled here is a perfect case study in formula filmmaking guaranteed to bore . 
i have never been a " star trek " fan , and , to tell the truth , out of the five films in the series that i have seen ( 1 , 2 , 3 , 8 , 9 ) , i have disliked all of them . 
i do , however , always go into one of these with an open mind , and the ninth film in the series , " star trek : insurrection , " is no exception . 
dropping almost completely the hard-core sci-fi element of the previous one in the series , " first contact , " " insurrection , " tells the story of a planet that holds only 600 people , known as the ba'ku , as well as the fountain of youth . 
at the start of the picture , the villagers go under attack by a second alien species , known as the son'a , who want to push all of the ba'ku out so that their own race will not die out . 
also attacking the ba'ku is data ( brent spiner ) , a robot from the star trek enterprise . 
after returning to jean-luc picard ( patrick stewart ) and the gang on their space ship , no one can understand why data was somehow taken over by another force . 
so several of the star trek members travel down to the planet of the ba'ku , where picard meets up and starts to fall in love with one of the inhabitants , a sultry , kind alien woman ( donna murphy ) , who is over six-hundred-years-old , but looks to only be in her thirties . 
 " star trek : insurrection , " is a completely unoriginal and cheap-looking installment in the series , and is a big step down from , 1996's " first contact , " which at least appeared to try to make something a bit different . 
in , " insurrection , " however , it plays like a low-rent episode of the television show , due to the small-scale , generic storyline , and an emphasis on one-liners rather than excitement . 
the film was filled with nearly non-stop comedy , and worse yet , most of it fell flatter than a cartoon character that drops off a cliff . 
meanwhile , when there were action sequences , they were not at all interesting or inventive , relying on that old reliable ticking timer that counts down very , very slowly . 
this plot device , which is seen in just about every action film made nowadays , is getting old fast . 
are filmmakers so bankrupt of ingenuity and ideas that they must always have a timer ticking away during the climax ? 
another element of , " star trek , " films in general is that picard seems to always have to have a love interest , but then she always miraculously disappears when the next film is made two or three years later . 
although donna murphy , who falls victim to this thankless love interest role here , is actually one of the few characters that we get to know in the 103-minute running time , alfre woodard was far superior in , " first contact . " 
she should have returned for this one , but i don't blame her for not wanting to waste her time with this movie's disappointing and often lifeless screenplay , by michael piller . 
 " star trek : insurrection , " is perhaps the weakest film in the " star trek , " series , although i have not seen what is widely considered the worst , " star trek v : the final frontier . " 
 " insurrection , " is the type of " safe " sequel that will bewilder non-fans , since it is so low-tech compared to most of today's blockbuster action films ( although most of these are honestly not very good , either ) , and should disappoint the loyal trekkies , since it could have easily been better if the makers had realized that the screenplay needed to go through a few more drafts . 
on second thought , they probably should have completely thrown the script out . 
that way , they could have come up with a story that at least had a sign of intelligence and freshness . 
while the summer movie season approached its long awaited cessation , we had yet another shoddy , subordinate disposable celluloid superhero movie brought on by the inexorable hasten from the major studios to please kids with everything they think kids will go for to disburse their seven bucks . 
and , once again , we have one of the worst films of the year . 
the trend of the moment-- and bear in mind it's a trend not a movie - is spawn , and if you've seen the animated series on hbo you'll recall it embodies the lost life of a disfigured man , an individual who has transpired the ultimate punishment : he's been sent to hell . 
todd mcfarlane , the creator of the spawn comic book , must have had a tough time sitting through spawn , for his creativity and themes about resurrection and loss of identity were all being jettisoned in favor of reliable special effects , style over substance , ambience over anything else . 
not only does spawn rely entirely on special effects , the story , about a bewildered individual who must take on a group of * bad guys * and * find himself * in the process is realized in such a sordid , incapable manner , it becomes indigestible after a while . 
every character in this film is lifeless , vacuous and seemingly written by a depressed college student . 
the story begins , like in every superhero movie in this age , with a man living an idyllic life . 
al simmons ( michael jai white ) , a government agent/assassin shares the love of his wife , wanda ( theresa russell ) and daughter , has a tongue-in-cheek , wiseass partner , terry ( d . b sweeney ) and is content with the job his boss , jason wynn ( martin sheen ) , provides him . 
the next element in the film is the part when things go awry . 
and as expected , everyone turns the tables on poor al . 
as the two are investigating their latest mission at some sort of biological weapons plant , al is befriended by jason , and dies in a gory and truly sickening scene . 
inevitably , it leads everyone to the conclusion that he has passed away . 
hence , jason's mischievous master-mind plan , to ` conquer the world " is just commencing its initial stages , when al makes a pact with satan himself , agreeing to command the devil's army to take over the world and he gets to see his family again . 
so , our pal al has been uplifted to hell , and while his transformation from normal guy to spawn takes place , his ol' partner terry forms a relationship with his wife . 
time passes . 
and now spawn is present in the grotesque inner city , the ghetto where cog ( nicol williamson ) teaches spawn how to utilize his neat artifacts , his motorbike , armor , etc . . . 
this character is merely a poor man's obi wan kenobi without all the mythological hoopla . 
now the stage is set spawn , the new `enemy of evil' vs evil . 
and evil takes the cake , doubtlessly . 
john leguizamo's deliciously heinous performance as the injurious clown working for wynn is the film's relief point . 
all this anguish , pain , half-baked themes and putrid action scenes are invisible to leguizamo , who steals the show and derives joy from his character , which is basically a compilation of so-so one liners . 
and then there's martin sheen . 
whichever way you look you will find carving boards near his pitying and downright appalling last two years . 
his selections calls for an immediate firing of his agent . 
as the megalomaniac boss , his caricature plays like a bad dream out of a b-movie , scrambled , and left in the shelf to rot . 
this is the man that starred in films such as apocalypse now and wall street . 
i'd never thought i'd be saying this , but at this juncture , charlie sheen's career is in better shape . 
spawn is a movie in which realism , or even an attempt to draw a parallel between the problems of the hero and real life is identifiable . 
for most of the film the vapid michael jai white consumes his time ogling , jumping through roofs , and performing all kinds of acrobatic exercises which even batman and robin accomplished better . 
it constantly reminded us we were watching a superhero movie-- a very bad superhero movie . 
continually the film kept on depending on special effects , and sadly , this is how pictures are being made . 
perhaps no other movie better than spawn illustrates the deterioration of cinema through computer wizardry . 
the filmmakers seem to have forgotten every human element possible . 
the quality of this film is abysmal and insulting . 
it is perceptible that director mark dippe , attempted to touch the psychological chord that tim burton's batman did touch , the desperation of a man whose life has all but evaporated in one spontaneous act . 
but bruce wayne had human elements to him . 
he was pensive , resourceful and had relationships , which made our perspective on him equally human . 
the character of al simmons seems to be longing for a drastic change , as if he's fatigued about being normal . 
and as all superheroes , batman , superman , the phantom , they must possess an element of normal civilians to make us think they are extraordinary . 
none of this is present in spawn . 
the fighting sequences are weakly executed , the dialogue is penny-dreadful and the art direction an odious duplicate of blade runner's . 
as an example of this film's vastly creative imagination the writers of spawn decided to include a poor orphan boy who is abandoned and beaten , and then rescued by spawn , so our emotions tend to be a little more sympathetic . 
admittedly , i did laugh once in the film , and that's when todd mcfarlane showed up in an unexpected cameo as a bum . 
it is no wonder why so american children grow up with no engrossment for art or literature . 
besides blaming a large portion of it on the laughable school system , i condemn the other part to garbage like spawn . 
movies that present no admiration , no captivation , no richness and vague interest in what children are being subjected to . 
and kids will continue to see films like spawn , simply because they are unable to differentiate what makes an imaginative , wondrous film from an insipid and wasteful one . 
children are not muppets . 
and spawn unapologetically targets children . 
it's not a bad thing to update old stories . 
it's done all the time in the oral tradition . 
the difficulty with this film is not that the tale has changed , it's that it's dry . 
the new cinderella , danielle ( drew barrymore ) is not sitting around waiting for her prince to come . 
she's a woman of the late twentieth century albeit situated in sixteenth century france . 
when her father dies , she stays on in his house even though she is mistreated by her wicked stepmother rodmilla ( anjelica huston ) . 
she works by day , but reads sir thomas more by firelight at night . 
although the story is updated , you know the plot . 
danielle meets prince henry ( dougray scott ) , goes to a ball disguised , is later found out and they live happily ever after . 
the movie is often like watching a filmed play . 
theater in real life is engrossing . 
theater on the screen is usually lifeless . 
there doesn't seem to be much going on . 
the camera can be a star of films . 
here it's a co-conspirator . 
danielle's convictions are compromised . 
a socialist and a feminist , she pretends to be royalty to get her man . 
a kind woman , her last act in the movie is one of revenge . 
the most enjoyable characters are the most cartoonish . 
the fairy godmother stand-in , leonardo da vinci ( patrick godfrey ) is fun to watch as the eccentric old man who advises danielle . 
huston is enjoyable in her over-the-top wickedness . 
in all fairness , my companion loved the film . 
maybe it's one of those " chick flicks " that men don't like . 
it is certainly a date film . 
nearly the entire audience was couples . 
oh well , maybe it's good for something . 
i suppose it's unfair to criticize a movie like hudson hawk , which has been panned by reviewers and moviegoers alike since it's 1991 release . 
michael lehmann's action-comedy was quick to win the title `biggest box office flop of all time' , or close thereof . 
the movie stars bruce willis as renowned cat burglar hudson hawk , who's just been released from sing sing prison after many years in isolation ( `let me put it this way , ' he explains , `i never saw et' ) . 
greeting him is his old friend and partner in crime ( played by danny aiello ) , who becomes the subject of many amusing fat jokes . 
these are rather welcome in a movie filled with so many completely unfunny sight gags , cartoonish villains and unbelievable coincidences . 
it appears as if director lehmann didn't know when to stop all the absurd silliness , and he piles on layer after layer of utter ridiculousness as the movie propels itself toward the finish line . 
if at some point during hudson hawk you make the assumption that things couldn't get goofier , you'll soon be eating your words . 
but , i'm inclined to say that this film is not quite as terrible as it's box office numbers suggest . 
it's fast-paced and entertaining , if you've got incredible patience and a warped sense of humor . 
for the first portion of this review , i'm going to try and center on the positive aspects of hudson hawk . 
wish me luck . 
first and foremost : bruce willis is a good sport . 
while i'm not entirely sure what he was smoking when he co-wrote this script , willis is quite aware that the entire project is a big , fat , ugly joke . 
he constantly gives deadpan reactions to things that are very silly and out-of-place , which means he has more than his share of deadpan reactions . 
another plus is the appearance of andie macdowell as a schizophrenic nun and love interest for the title character . 
they meet when hudson goes on a mission to steal a priceless book from the vatican , and their relationship escalates in interest from there . 
it's unfortunate that mcdowell's one-note character is used just as an excuse for there to be a predictable plot-twist , and she offers absolutely no encouraging chemistry with willis . 
but now i'm rambling on again about the negative things , aren't i ? 
enough of the charade - for the most part , hudson hawk is an excruciating experience . 
it's stupid , pointless and repetitive . 
i can only wonder what bruce willis fans thought after exiting the theater , because this film really doesn't have the potential to please anyone . 
action fans should take note that hudson hawk is composed of 90% comedy , and even the action sequences are skittery , rushed and poorly edited . 
and those expecting a hearty laugh or two will find it difficult even to smirk during all of the headache-inducing hi-jinks . 
don't get me wrong , this film is not devoid of laughs . 
it's too bad most of them are unintentional , or just plain forced . 
the impressive cast looks suitably embarrassed . 
it's understandable to see willis and aiello in a movie of this caliber , but as for the presence of future academy award winner james coburn i'm not entirely sure . 
coburn plays a former nemesis of the hawk who again comes into play , and he looks unsure of his place the entire movie . 
especially when he resorts to martial arts during the final showdown , and has a fight with willis that would look right at home in a jackie chan film . 
things get more bizarre when we're introduced to his team of rejects named after chocolate bars , including future nypd blue star david caruso as the speechless , card-flipping kit-kat . 
if that's not enough for you , there's richard e . grant and sandra bernhard hamming it up as a deranged couple on the brink of a convoluted economic takeover . 
their crotch-biting pooch provides a couple of the big laughs here . 
wait , maybe the only big laughs . . . 
i'm not sure what kind of movie everyone had in mind when filming hudson hawk . 
i can't even begin to start about the film's absurd plot ; but let's not get into that . 
i suppose there's some amusement viewers could derive from the ridiculous premise , if they were that desperate . 
but hudson hawk never even has a clue of where it's going from minute one , and from there it's 90 minutes of pure cinematic muck . 
if there were a subject just screaming to be made into a film , it was studio 54 , the late steve rubell's infamous new york discotheque , which came to symbolize the taboo-smashing excesses of the disco era's heyday : easy drugs and even easier sex between everyone , all set to a thumping dance beat . 
so when miramax started production on _54_ last year , the buzz of hype and resulting anticipation began : an edgy film as down-and-dirty as the club itself , written and directed by a promising first-timer ( mark christopher ) and starring some hot young talent ( salma hayek , neve campbell , newcomer ryan phillippe , and mike myers in his dramatic debut ) . 
my , how easily does the worm turn . 
hype turned into damage control when word got out about 11th-hour reshoots ( wrapped only a month ago ) , a rash of studio-imposed edits that left virtually the entire cast and crew ( especially christopher ) unhappy , and the very likely possibility that miramax would not screen the finished film for critics . 
at the last minute , though , miramax did decide to screen the film ( so hastily scheduled was the screening that myers's last name was misspelled on the invitation , not to mention the numerous typos in the press notes ) for a media audience that came away noticeably less than impressed , myself included . 
and with good reason--somehow , some way , the supremely disappointing _54_ has made the historically hip haven of hedonism . . . 
boring . 
although christopher has distanced himself from the finished film , he still must shoulder some of the blame for _54_'s lifelessness . 
_54_ focuses , for the most part , on a tight-knit trio of employees at the club : coat check girl/aspiring disco diva anita ( a wasted hayek ) ; her busboy husband , greg ( breckin meyer ) ; and , most prominently , the fresh-from-jersey shane o'shea ( phillippe ) , who enjoys a quick rise from busboy to head bartender . 
these characters are about as generic as those descriptions . 
in focusing on the hired help , christopher really missed the boat . 
with the exception of the flamboyant , always-woozy rubell ( myers , in a well-modulated turn ) , the meaty stories to be told at studio 54 are not the workers' but those of the people who went there to party ; not necessarily the numerous vip guests , but the wild eccentrics who managed to be picked from the crowd by the club's famously hard-ass doormen and dance ( among other things ) the night away with the rich , famous , and infamous ( the only taste of the crowd comes by way of ellen dow's feisty dottie , a disco- and drug-crazed granny , but she's a peripheral character at best ) . 
as such , aside from the expected overhead crowd shots , there is precious little actual _dancing_ in _54_ . 
what is a disco film--especially one about the pinnacle of the movement--without the dancing ? 
even whit stillman's _the_last_days_of_disco_ , which wasn't so much concerned with disco as it was witty dialogue within a group of hip-to-only-themselves club-hopping preppies , featured at least one extended dance scene . 
dancing isn't the only thing glazed over in _54_--so is the sex , but that may not be entirely christopher's fault . 
from what i've heard , his original vision was something considerably more dark and daring , starting with the shane character : he was conceived ( and actually filmed ) as a wild , morally ambiguous bisexual , which would have made an efficient springboard to cover the pansexual pleasure palace aspect of studio 54's legend . 
but somewhere between principal photography and the final cut , shane was defanged and quite literally straightened out ; consequently , so was the film . 
aside from a brief glimpse of erotic encounters toward the beginning of the film , shane's fleeting dalliance with seductive socialite billie ( sela ward ) , and an abbreviated bedhopping montage , the sexual dimension is just about ignored . 
shane , in this incarnation , is sanitized to the point of blandness , an idealistic do-gooder who pines for a frequent guest at the club , julie black ( campbell ) , a worldly soap star with , yes , a heart of gold . 
this tacked-on " romance " would have been slightly less tedious if either campbell or phillippe made some connection with each other or the audience . 
they fail on both counts . 
ultimately , _54_'s failure comes down to three letters : f-u-n . 
as in , there isn't any to be had for the audience . 
too much time is spent with the boring shane , and too little is spent on the club floor , where all the action took place . 
anyhow , though , whatever time is spent on the 54 floor is not used very effectively . 
when anita finally gets her big break and perform onstage at the club , it should be a euphoric height , for her , the crowd , and the audience ; however , the moment doesn't get a chance to reach that level , for it is cut short by a moment of forced sentimentality , which also mars the film's conclusion ( one of the last-minute reshoots ) . 
strangely upbeat and wistful , the resolution is wholly unconvincing and unsatisfying . 
there is an interesting portrait of studio 54 out there--two of them , in fact--but _54_ is not one of them . 
they're on cable tv : a couple of documentaries produced by e ! and vh1 . 
these two fascinating looks at the club and all the sordid goings-on within it show that there's still a great disco movie to be made . 
the problem is , after the critical and certain box office failure of _54_ , the subject may have run its hollywood course . 
a hotshot lawyer gets an obviously guilty child molester acquitted , and shortly after during the victory celebration gets offered an opportunity to show his prowess in new york city . 
the lawyer , kevin lomax ( keanu reeves ) is not offered a job yet , he is asked to simply pick a jury . 
he accepts . 
the jury he selects work out well and before long he is offered a job with the firm . 
making his decision easy is the fact that not only is he offered big money , but a gorgeous apartment . 
he convinces his wife , mary ann ( charlize theron ) to make the move to new york . 
the first case given to him is a big test ; a " winless " case concerning a man who sacrifices animals in his basement . 
the charge was health code violations and kevin once again shows his skill and earns an acquittal . 
his new boss and partner in the firm , john milton ( al pacino ) is quite impressed and takes kevin under his wing , explaining many of his philosophies on law , women and sex , and angles the promise of a blissful , wealthy life . 
kevin's next case is a dream case , given to him by milton himself ( much to the chagrin to his colleagues ) , defending a triple murder suspect who has had a history of problems with the law . 
although kevin's career is taking off , his home life is not doing very well . 
mary ann is starting to have numerous problems . 
she is experiencing severe depression over kevin's long hours , and before long is having horrible dreams and hallucinations of people turning into ghouls , their faces becoming horribly disfigured . 
kevin does not help matters by dismissing his wife . 
he does not spend more time with her as he explains to milton that he needs to spend as much time on the case as possible to get it over with , then focus all of his attention on his wife . 
not helping matters is the fact that kevin is having ideas about a possible affair with a sexy lawyer ( connie nielson ) also working with the firm . 
mary ann falls deeper into her madness as kevin spends more time away from home . 
kevin eventually looses control of his life and has to institutionalize his wife , and gets disturbing news from his mother ( judith ivey ) about the mystery concerning the identity of his father . 
he also starts to lose control of his case . 
kevin learns that all of his problems have been caused by the work of one man . 
that man is his boss , mr . milton , a truly evil character who just may be the devil himself . 
kevin must somehow confront milton and thwart whatever diabolical plan he has in store . 
but how do you defeat the devil ? 
why is it that most courtroom scenes in the movies are absurd ? 
do filmmakers really believe that " normal " courtroom drama doesn't fit the bill and they have to juice them up ? 
the courtroom scenes in this movie would never happen in a real courtroom , which wouldn't have been too bad if it weren't keanu reeves trying to pull it off . 
i give reeves credit for trying hard , but throughout the movie i never saw the kevin lomax character , just an actor trying very hard to play kevin lomax and coming up short . 
charlize theron defines the term " over-the-top " in her performance as mary ann lomax , a disappointment in contrast to her good performance in " 2 days in the valley " . 
the only good performance in the movie is by al pacino , but i kept asking myself what the heck he was doing in this mess ? 
maybe he felt it would be interesting playing the devil , and you can tell he is having fun doing so , but his skill as an actor cannot save the poor performances and lackluster script that surround him . 
it's pretty standard stuff , including the fact that the hotshot lawyer appears to be the only competent person on the planet who can do anything right in the courtroom . 
please read no further if you do not want the ending spoiled , but i have to get something off of my chest . 
in 1986 i remember watching a movie called " wisdom " with emilio estevez and demi moore , and the ending of that film did the worst possible thing that a movie could do . 
what i like to call " guess what , it was all a dream " scenario . 
in " wisdom " the two lead characters are killed at the end , only to have one of the characters " wake up " from an apparent and say " gosh , i'm glad that didn't really happen ! " . 
i considered it inexcusable the way the audience was toyed with . 
well , the same thing happens in " the devils advocate " , and although arguments could be made surrounding whether it was actually a dream ( perhaps milton went back in time to try a different route for his plan , since it failed and he is the devil ) , but the point is that the last 90% of the film didn't happen . 
i know it's a stretch , after all it is a movie and nothing really happened , but i just get annoyed to get toyed with like that . 
of course , the dream ending could almost be forgiven if the story that precedes it was at least an interesting one . 
as i recall , " wisdom " was a decent film . 
 " the devil's advocate " is not . 
the devils advocate 
directed by taylor hackford john milton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . al pacino kevin lomax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . keanu 
reeves mary ann lomax . . . . . . . . . . . charlize 
theron mrs . lomax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . judith 
ivey eddie barzoon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . jeffrey jones christabella . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . connie 
nielson 
written by randy turgeon , march 18 , 1998 . 
the spy game is up . 
you can thank charlie's angels -- the movie -- for that . 
when did banality and pandering become okay ? 
just steal from hong kong , the matrix , and a kitschy tv show from the mid-1970s and that's a movie ? 
charlie's angels is one of the worst examples of action film homogeneity and shameless duplicity in any film i've seen in ages . 
charlie's angels is dumb . 
just plain dumb . 
as we all know , three of the hottest females on the planet -- drew barrymore , cameron diaz , and lucy liu -- are three super-agents working for the mysterious millionaire named charlie . 
they all drive fast cars , look oh-so-fabulous even in the morning , and don't seem to get a scratch even when fighting armed men , having buildings explode ten feet in front of them , or flying through the air in matrix slow-motion . 
and while the entourage spends 90 minutes romping around in cleavage-busting wetsuits , cleavage-busting waitress uniforms , and cleavage-busting wet t-shirts , they scarcely succeed in resembling so much as a group of annoying , drunk sorority girls , the kind who hit on everybody at a party . 
the actual plot revolves around the ridiculous story of a millionaire computer engineer -- the great sam rockwell -- who gets kidnapped by a mysterious rival computer company . 
of course , the rival wants control of his new personal identification system , which involves such latter-day buzzwords as gps , cellular tracking , and even mainframe . 
the amazing crispin glover lends his acting chops as a crazed henchmen involved in all the nasty things that happen to the angels -- like battling each of them in many round-robin matrix rip-off ( again ) fight sequences and harboring a strange attraction to sliced-off locks of the angels' hair . 
the coup de grace is bill murray as bosley , serving as charlie's manservant , or , more to the point , the angels' pimp . 
the rest of the movie comprises a revenge arc , enough costume changes to fill three productions of les miserables , carbon-copy fight sequences that would lend credible evidence to a jackie chan and the wachowski brothers lawsuit for intellectual property theft , and the strange transformation of sam rockwell into mickey rourke's long-lost brother . 
charlie's angels starts off with a bang and ends up being a soggy burrito left out overnight . 
nothing is difficult , plausible , or believable in any of the angels' actions . 
it feels like the matrix , mission : impossible 2 , and cleopatra jones and the casino of gold all rolled into one . 
diaz is a knucklehead . 
barrymore is the " dangerous one , " mean and tough and about as believable as katie holmes in the role . 
liu is just . . . 
lucy liu , looking good in a skin-tight black leather suit . 
the list of movies from which charlie's angels is directly lifted is equally astonishing . 
the writers apparently ran the copier all night stealing scenes from armageddon , lethal weapon ii , all of jackie chan's movies , the great escape , saturday night fever , revenge of the nerds , payback , darkman , dr . no , the matrix ( as mentioned ) , and even tv's friends . 
it's a shame , too , because one of the many screenwriters , john august , was at the helm of last year's favorite , go . 
then again , what can you expect from a director known solely as " mcg . " 
there is no camp value in the film , no interesting main characters , no invigorating action scenes , no reason at all to waste your time except to ogle the hot chicks and enjoy the performances of a few supporting players . 
note to hollywood : next time , let's leave the tv shows on the tv . 
i have always been a fan of director neil jordan , from his early work , such as 1984's " the company of wolves , " to 1992's " the crying game , " and 1994's " interview with a vampire . " 
his latest film , " the butcher boy , " is a return to his roots in ireland , but unfortunately , it is not a successful homecoming . 
told through the eyes of a 12-year-old irish boy , francis ( newcomer eomann owens ) , this peculiar film follows him as we learn a little about his decidedly unstable life . 
his father ( stephen rea ) is an indifferent alcoholic , his mother ( fiona shaw ) is mentally ill and always in and out of hospitals , and francis himself delights in terrorizing the mother of one of his friends after he is forbidden to see him anymore . 
francis is the type of boy who always has a lot to say , but mostly fluctuates between sarcasm and frightening honesty , and it quickly becomes apparent that he may very well be a little psychotic , even capable of brutal murder . 
the premise of , " the butcher boy , " is one that could have very well been turned into a thought-provoking , disturbing motion picture , but somehow nothing works . 
francis is in almost every scene , but we learn very little about him , as if the film was distancing itself away from him when , i suspect , we were actually supposed to sympathize with him . 
this is definately not young owens fault , however , because he gives a brilliantly accurate performance , and is able to also seem menacing as well . 
the fact that we don't get close to his character is because of the sloppy screenplay . 
the supporting characters are no help , though . 
rea is wasted , and has practically no scenes where he actually talks to his son , or to anyone else for that matter . 
he usually seems to just be sitting watching the television throughout . 
shaw has a little bit more to work with , since she has one touching scene in which she talks to francis in a time of despair , but is out of the picture just as we are beginning to know her . 
and singer sinead o'connor appears rather effectively as the virgin mary who occasionally gives francis advice . 
the pacing is all off in , " the butcher boy . " 
although the story could have been dynamite , it moves at a deadeningly slow rate , and i found my mind wandering every once in a while . 
it is also very episodic , because the developments in the story fly by with no satisfying payoffs . 
at one point , francis is sent away to a juvenile prison , and an odd , possibly sexual relationship begins to develop between a priest and himself , but nothing comes of it . 
i'd rather think of , " the butcher boy , " as a brief diversion for director jordan , rather than a total misfire . 
he has already proven to be a strong director , but he lucked out with this latest film . 
what could have been a courageous , unsettling character study of an emotionally disturbed young boy , only manages to be an ineffective , uninvolivng bore . 
as you should know , this summer has been less than memorable . 
with a total of 4 decent films , it's not a surprise that these big budget failures keep appearing . 
with that said , you can pretty much predict what my opinion on " the 13th warrior " will be . 
the film is based on the michael crichton " eaters of the dead " , in which ahmed ibn fahdlan is banished from his country for looking at a wife of a king . 
after tarveling for many months , he comes across a gang of norsemen , who are forced to pick 13 men to protect a town from mythical monsters who travel in the fog . 
so , they start picking men , and are left without 1 , thus ahmed is choosen . 
so far it sounds interesting right ? 
not when all of this takes place in 15 minutes . 
after that , they basically run around killing . 
that alone shows how much a script is needed for a film , because once your story is introduced , you have the rest of the film to start developing it . 
obviously that's not the case here . 
even if you are going into the film expecting an action packed adventure , you will be disappointed . 
since all the action takes place in fog , it is constantly hard to see a scene clearly due to those circumstances , and to poor camera work . 
can't the camera men sit still ? 
i'd like to actually watch a film in focus , but again , they failed to deliver that as well . 
the film moves on and on until the point , where you can care less about anything but the popcorn you're eating . 
with corny dialogue , that the characters laugh at for some odd reason , a script that goes nowhere , dull action sequences , a predictable ending , and worst of all weak characters , there's basically nothing to like here , except for maybe the set designs . 
that's the only thing that honestly caught my interest . 
when i heard that john mctiernan , the director , wanted his name kept out of the project , that made me wonder why ? 
well now i know . 
crichton's greed forced mctiernan to edit his finished product , which led to a big arguement . 
what's there to argue about anyway ? 
the film couldn't be saved , no matter how much they spent or casted . 
seeing films like the haunting and big daddy making money , i wouldn't be surprised to see " the 13th warrior " become a hit . 
please do me a favor and save your money at all costs , or else you will be lost in the fog , like the film itself . 
if i were one of those arrogant critics who thinks his review has some great impact on the success or failure of certain films , i might say that i review movies that don't look particularly good because i'm doing a service to my readers by warning them against seeing it . 
if that were true , i could put a banner at the top of my site that reads : " shay casey : seeing bad movies so you don't have to . " 
but i know that's bunk-you're going to see whatever movies you want to no matter what i say . 
so i have to tell the truth : every once in a while i get a nasty , masochistic urge to see a bad movie . 
you know the feeling , when you're sick of seeing all these damn academy award contenders and you want to see something you can have a ball trashing mercilessly . 
sometimes i think that's why anyone goes to see pauly shore movies , ever . 
admit it : sometimes you like seeing bad movies . 
so do i . 
so i saw " supernova . " 
truth be told , " supernova " wasn't quite as bad as i thought it might be . 
maybe i just felt sorry for the actors , or maybe i thought it could have been decent if the studio hadn't started tinkering with the director's ( walter hill ) final cut , causing him to want his name removed . 
maybe i'm becoming a softy . 
in any case , i didn't find " supernova " as bad as the advance buzz would have me believe . 
but it's still bad . 
the film takes place aboard the medical space vessel " nightingale . " 
the crew includes captain a . j . 
marley ( robert forster ) , his new second officer nick vanzant ( james spader ) , head medical officer kaela evers ( angela bassett ) , medical technicians yerzy penalosa ( lou diamond phillips ) and danika lund ( robin tunney ) , and computer technician benj sotomejor ( wilson cruz ) . 
there are some attempts at " characterization , " but all that means is that nick has a shady past involving a drug addiction , which puts kaela on edge , yerzy and danika have a relationship that requires them to make kissy-faces at each other every five minutes , and benj ( apparently gay ) is in love with the computer ( apparently female ) . 
don't expect any more explanation , because you won't get it . 
anyway , the crew gets a distress call from a location deep in space to which a failed mining operation had been sent . 
during the dimension jump ( i think that's what it's called , but don't hold me to it ) , the captain is killed and the man who sent the distress signal ( peter facinelli ) is brought on board . 
he calls himself troy larson , making him the supposed son of a man kaela once had a relationship with . 
then a bunch of really predictable stuff starts happening . 
have you seen " alien ? " 
have you seen " event horizon " ( a lame movie in its own right ) ? 
good . 
then you've seen " supernova . " 
post-production cuts or not , there is nothing original about this screenplay , and nothing unpredictable either . 
after all , no one's going to think for a second that troy won't turn out to be a villain . 
but the bigger problem with " supernova " is that it can' t just stick to the simple plot it's afforded . 
numerous re-writes ( the script may be credited to three people , but it's a gross underestimate ) have crammed this lean 90-minute film with tons of extraneous plot threads that all remain underdeveloped . 
was there something about a limping robot shaped like a fighter pilot ? 
did the ship's computer learn something about humanity ? 
what was that glowing lava lamp artifact troy brought on board with him ? 
and just what does the film's title signify , if anything ? 
as far as i can tell , it refers to a very small plot detail that isn't developed , just like the rest of these unnecessary story elements . 
character relationships in this film also make very little sense . 
for some reason , every person in this film keeps having sex . 
we get an unusually early sex scene between phillips and tunney within the first 10 minutes . 
bassett and spader's characters start off hating each other . 
fifteen minutes and one bottle of pear brandy later , they're engaging in some hanky-panky . 
when troy the creepy stranger shows up on the ship , of course both female crew members will fall in love with him . 
every single shift in character interaction happens extremely suddenly , which is only one of the many obvious clues to how much this film has been cut . 
the most prominent example , however , may be the fact that when the film starts , there are no opening credits ! 
furthermore , the end of the film looks like they took what were originally intended to be the opening credits and spliced them in right before the real end credits . 
maybe that's why the film's title is mentioned twice during the end credits , right between james spader and robert forster . 
right after you get over the shock of not being told what movie you're seeing ( lest you decide to walk out upon making that discovery ) , you might notice that the movie seems to have dropped you right in the middle of a scene , with little-to-no introduction to any of the characters or situations . 
the rest of the movie feels like they skipped over the middle stuff in the character changes ( you know , where they explain things ) and just went from point a to point b . point a : danika is thoroughly enamored of yerzy and is ready to have his baby . 
point b : tunney is now shagging troy and yerzy is unusually obsessed with the lava lamp thing . 
doesn't make sense . 
since i didn't understand anything about these characters' motivations , did i care when troy abruptly starts murdering them one-by-one ( and he does , knocking off three of them in about 10 minutes ) ? 
not a whit . 
it's a shame , because this cast contains a lot of talented actors looking for something to do . 
they don't find it . 
bassett and spader say every line in the same monotone voice with the same blank expressions on their faces . 
sexual tension ? 
more like constipation . 
maybe they're just embarrassed at having to utter such howlers as " this thing was made by someone more powerful than god and a whole lot less nice . " 
not that we ever find out who that is , mind you . 
the climax of their relationship ( taking place in a transport pod ) is probably the film's biggest forehead-slapper . 
as troy , peter facinelli inhabits the most obvious villain in history that no one ever suspected . 
he' s awfully one-note , but it's not as if he's given any more notes to work with . 
the rest of the cast does even less . 
tunney stands around looking cute , then scared . 
phillips broods . 
cruz flirts with the computer . 
then they all die and a star blows up or something , but i really wasn't paying much attention by then . 
 " supernova " is pretty awful , but i'm cutting it a little slack merely because i expected less than what i got . 
that's it . 
if you expect it to be good ( for whatever reasons you may have ) , you'll probably hate it more than i will . 
even the special effects are fairly unimpressive , nothing you haven' t seen before , and suffice to say the script isn't going to save the film . 
honestly , though , what do you expect from a film with about a dozen writers and a director who had his name removed and replaced with a pseudonym ? 
it usually results in a bad movie , and that's what " supernova " is . 
for timing reasons having to do with baby sitters , we recently went to a multiplex and saw undercover blues . 
i would give it one half of a star for guts . 
anyone in a movie this bad would have to have guts . 
i later read a ny times review that said kathleen turner and dennis quaid had gotten so plump they looked like they had the mumps in the show . 
the script was the worst part . 
they had characters who talked with funny accents in an attempt to make you laugh . 
they had lots of " great " sight gags like two people trying to go in a door together and therefore bumping shoulders against the door . 
turner and quaid both kept smiling like some idiots on a game show . 
the good news is that we were smart enough to vote with our feet and left . 
buy some tickets and give them to your worst enemies . 
tell them the show is great and smile a lot . 
 * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . 
a must see film . 
 * * * = excellent show . 
look for it . 
 * * = average movie . 
kind of enjoyable . 
 * = poor show . 
don't waste your money . 
0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . 
totally unbearable . 
review written on : september 29 , 1993 
opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the obvious reason for producing a sequel to an immensely popular movie is to acquire continued profits . 
the rationale is sound , but in many cases of this and recent years , the sequel is a shoddy product that's exposed for the cash-milking vehicle it really is . 
last year's speed 2 and scream 2 , as well as this year's species ii have all been products that have been decisively less than satisfactory . 
in some cases , a sequel can even discredit its predecessor , as with the latest neo-slasher flick , i still know what you did last summer . 
whatever uniqueness the original might've had now seems trite and overplayed when paired with this abominable thriller . 
julie james ( jennifer love hewitt ) and ray bronson ( freddie prinze jr . ) are back from the original to star in i still know , reprising their roles in typical fashion . 
julie and ray experience a rather predictable falling-out at the beginning of the movie , leaving the door wide open for newcomer will benson ( matthew settle ) . 
will and julie hit it off , and along with friends karla ( brandy norwood ) and tyrell ( mekhi phifer ) , the foursome heads off to a radio station-giveaway vacation in the tropics . 
unfortunately , things aren't so peachy once they arrive , and with a regularity you could set your watch by , the infamous fisherman ( muse watson ) is back with his hook . 
it's another bloody showdown , complete with cliffhanger ending . 
there's not much that's original about i still know , and with the market saturated by gen-x thrillers like this one , it's unlikely that i still know will get any recognition other than that of a bad sequel . 
for die-hard fans of the genre , this will be required viewing material , but the bottom line is that the material here is just recycled from the original i know what you did last summer . 
the aura of thrillerism surrounding the plot isn't heightened by skillful scripting or camera work , but rather a tense , string-based score and manipulative editing . 
the man with the hook ends up becoming very belittled this time around when the script gives him too many lines of dialogue -- he goes from being a scary figure to a nutcase in a few short and painful moments . 
much of the mystery is dropped for the sake of getting the point . 
the whole reason the plot exists - julie and karla must guess the capital of brazil in order to win the trip from the radio station - is a dead giveaway , lessening suspense and creating a hurry-up-and-wait timing problem . 
and , whereas the killer's identity might've been a question in the first movie , it's almost a given here , which changes the dynamic of the movie drastically . 
three or four teens run automatically from a man in a rain slicker they nonchalantly refer to as " the killer . " 
they're almost used to it , and the performances show it - not hewitt , nor prinze , nor brandy , nor phifer give a decent show . 
and so , in the end , it's left wide open for a third movie and - most likely - a brand new supporting cast . 
god help us . 
i'm a dedicated fan of writer kevin williamson's work . 
he always finds a clever way to spice up old material with witty dialogue and fresh ideas that stem from his inventive brain . 
with teaching mrs . tingle , his directorial debut , williamson has reached the end of his rope . 
what used to be intelligent about his films is hopelessly stale here . 
the components are all there , including an encouraging premise that all high school students can relate to . 
but where are the thrills ? 
the laughs ? 
both are supposedly absent from this draggy exercise in elaborate revenge . 
and what a shame that is . 
i loved the scream films - heck , i even enjoyed the sci-fi goofiness of the faculty . 
kevin williamson was the reason horror films were such a big draw at the box office . 
teaching mrs . tingle , a black comedy that will leave a gaping void in his optimistic followers , may put an end to his reign . 
or perhaps it will encourage him to spend more time perfecting a script than to worry about his directing duties . 
i still have my faith , but i fear the name of kevin williamson may soon be a forgotten echo of the past . 
the title character of his pet project is a vicious , uncaring history teacher who is played deliciously over-the-top by british actress helen mirren . 
mrs . tingle is basically every student's worst nightmare : a heartless human being bent on distributing poor marks to even the most hard-working of her pupils . 
the principal ( michael mckean ) is horrified of her , and she is unanimously despised among her fellow staff members . 
i enjoyed the fact that everyone in the hallway quickly steers out of her way . 
mirren's performance is one of the very few delights in this distressingly hollow black comedy that goes down like a flat soft drink . 
in other words , it's a poor substitute for williamson's best work . 
the plot is a big problem here . 
material that could have been enjoyable is rendered totally ridiculous by poor handling on the part of the director . 
the likable katie holmes plays leigh ann , an over-achiever hoping to get a college scholarship . 
but typical mrs . tingle says her history project , which she worked on for countless hours , is laughable . 
later on while studying in the gymnasium , a classmate ( barry watson ) offers her a photo-copied duplicate of mrs . tingle's final exam . 
leigh ann's best friend ( marisa coughlan ) encourages her to use it . 
alas , the old hag herself finds the three scheming , and snatches the test , and prepares to talk to the principal in the morning . 
in the morning . . . 
how convenient ! 
the three students head to mrs . tingle's house , attempting to set the facts straight and clear leigh ann's name . 
things get out of hand , and the teacher gets knocked unconscious in a tussle . 
the plan is to tie her to a bed and try to get some reasoning out of her . 
of course , not everything goes entirely to plan . 
besides pointless sub-plots involving the football coach ( jeffrey tambor , horribly wasted ) , there is little by way of actual progress . 
there is no urgency to the situation ; little tension or laughs are involved . 
the humor is completely inconsistent . 
after many of the jokes , the theater was so silent i could have heard a fly sneeze . 
you continue to await some momentum in the story , something that could possibly revive the slow pace . 
a moment like that never arises . 
williamson also does a handsome job of wasting some of the key supporting players , including the talented mckean and larry sanders' vet tambor . 
and the beautiful vivica a . fox has one lifeless scene as a caring guidance counselor , and then williamson disposes of her character entirely . 
on the plus side , holmes and coughlan are admirable ( with the latter giving a frighteningly believable exorcism impression ) , and molly ringwald has an amusing cameo appearance as a substitute teacher . 
while everything is pretty lifeless , teaching mrs . tingle remains watchable . 
there are a few promising ideas that pop up now and again , but anything remotely interesting is squandered by the inane script . 
mirren is easily the best reason to keep watching . 
she is convincingly evil and fun to watch , but even her gifted delivery can't save individual scenes that flounder in boredom . 
if there is one word for the movie surrounding her , it would be `disappointing' . 
basically , kevin williamson is his worst enemy here . 
his uneventful direction prevents any aspects of his screenplay to be appreciated ( not that his writing here is especially good ) . 
we will see , when rookie screenwriter ehren kruger writes the third installment in the scream franchise this christmas , whether williamson is for real . 
a film that means well , but is too pushy in promoting its belabored point and too sentimental to be compelling as a drama . 
it's jeroen krabb ? 's melodrama about a community of jews in antwerp in 1972 who can't forget their bitter past . 
the heroine is an attractive , carefree , nonreligious 20-year-old , chaja ( fraser ) , who wants to forget her jewish roots by getting involved in student demonstrations , screwing a student rebel leader , and living with her gentile friends away from her nagging mother ( s ? gebrecht ) and her self-absorbed , eccentric father ( schell ) . 
her parents are survivors of the holocaust concentration camps , and her home life is filled with angst . 
her mother is in denial about the past always busying herself by cooking soup and baking cakes and complaining about everything , while her father is more openly loving but has recently been absorbed in searching for two suitcases filled with mementos , a family album , silverware , and his old violin . 
he buried them in a garden during the war while fleeing the nazis , but can't locate them now due to all the changes in the city . 
out of frustration after quitting her job as a dishwasher and facing eviction from her apartment , she reluctantly accepts a job as a nanny with an hasidic couple that an old man in her parents' apartment building , mr . apfelschnitt ( topol ) , tells her about . 
the hasidics are ultra-orthodox : they don't go to the cinema or watch tv , adhere to strict dress codes , and strictly observe their religious laws . 
chaja is at first put off by the way they expect her to follow their rules , but soon finds the wife , mrs . kalman ( rossellini ) , to be kind and she becomes attached to one of her 5 children , a 4-year-old named simcha ( monty ) who doesn't talk . 
the stern mr . kalman ( krabb ? ) is not friendly to her and considers her to be a whore because of the way she dresses . 
to hammer home the point of how anti-semitism hasn't gone away there's a barrage of overdone and uninvolving scenes with a sneering concierge ( bradley ) , who keeps making nasty remarks about jews and tries to make things inconvenient for them by preventing the jewish family from using the elevator . 
the film is done in by its ham-fisted script as the story , adapted from carl friedman's book " the shovel and the loom , " goes from one false note to another until it gets lost in all the goo of its sentimentality . 
it starts off telling chaja's story of how she's a lost jewess trying to find her identity , then to her nanny role as she loves a mute child stuck in an insulated environment , and then it makes it a story about the lingering effects of the bitter past that can't be forgotten . 
the effort seemed heavy-handed , as the film kept delivering too many obvious messages that it ponderously kept delivering through the stock characters . 
the supporting cast consists of all wooden characters who give their roles a cartoonish flavoring : chaja's parents are given no human shades , while the janitor villain was a particularly annoying role that was one-dimensional and falsely acted . 
the only ones who fought through the script and showed some feelings were fraser , whose effervescent face was expressive of both the trying times she was going through and the joys she felt -- but most admirably showing how she could be so mistaken as to think that she could forget her roots ; while rossellini gave a warm performance of a woman suffering in silence , but is strong in accepting her faith . 
topol's reassuring performance as the wise man who says all the right things to fraser , acts as the true voice of the filmmaker in explaining all the sufferings with common sense . 
the film brazenly uses little simcha to get across its agenda of pointing out how the patriarchal world can be cruel when it can't love : it starts out by showing how under chaja's loving care he's taken to the duck pond and soon starts jabbering away , beginning by saying 'quack , quack' and then going on to ask the four questions during a passover seder . 
but by showing how the boy is so terrified of his strict father that he wets his pants in his presence , refuses to speak because of his stern dad , and eventually becomes the victim of a tragic accident , the film thereby exploits the boy's sufferings and his story just becomes tiresome and not sincerely done . 
i felt i didn't just see a movie , but i attended a lecture for the whole 100 minutes of this serious but unappetizing story . 
it was the kind of movie that you hoped would somehow end soon , as it seemed to be in the habit of rehashing its same viewpoint unnecessarily--the message it keeps sending was already received . 
in the last shot where father and daughter are hopelessly digging for the lost luggage , one has the impression that no one in the film learned anything about themselves or the past . 
that seems strange , since i thought that was what this film was supposed to be about . 
unless i was mistaken and the film's real aim was to make us cry over simcha . 
the tagline for this film is : " some houses are just born bad " . 
so i didn't expect too much from this . 
but i had preserved a little spark of ope as i entered the theatre . 
i thought : liam neeson , cathrine zeta jones and jan de bont . 
i thought , mabe it will be fun ? 
and in fact the beginning was rather intriguing . 
but by the end of it i thought : why liam neeson and cathrine zeta jones , jan de bont ? . 
these great actors are basically helpless with this muddled mess that defies any rationality . 
here is the story : in the monstrously over-decorated mansion known as hill house , visitors are tricked by an unknown doctor ( liam neeson ) into being guinea pigs in a fright experiment under the guise of an insomnia investigation . 
among them is a sophisticated bisexual ( cathrine zeta jones ) , a cynical dope ( owen wilson ) and a gentle and emotional lady ( lily taylor ) . 
actually , the doctor is researching the " primordial fear reaction " and intends to plant disturbing ideas in his subjects and watch what happens . 
but he gets unexpected help from the house itself . 
it rumbles , hums and belches forth remarkable sights . 
portals become veiny stained-glass eyeballs . 
a fireplace guarded by stone lions gapes like a sinister mouth . 
filmy cherubic spirits take shape under sheets and billowy curtains . 
but the computerized spooketeria rarely feels real , placing an emotional wall between audience and screen . 
the second half of the film is basically about the main heroine running back and forth from the sinister lamps and evil furniture . 
is that exciting or what ? 
the worst thing about it is that it didn't have to be bad . 
it's based on a great book , ``the haunting of hill house , '' by shirley jackson . 
a 1963 adaptation of the book was scary and intelligent . 
it played with the greatest fears of our sub conscience . 
 " the blair witch project " , that cost less than an old car , managed to shock and terrify the audiences from their senses . 
and with a $70 mill . 
budget , de bont and screenwriter david self make hash out of a perfectly lovely piece of terror . 
de bont has a style of filmmaking so out of line with the material that it is , in itself , frightening . 
he is the master of the extravagant special effect and the big visual adrenaline rush . 
but why give him a more serious material ? 
in the end " haunting " will only haunt its fledgling studio ( dream works skg ) and de bont's career as a director . 
yet it wouldn't be fair to say that everything is bad . 
the effects are truly impressive and the house is wonderfully decorated -- beautiful , mysterious , magical and spooky . 
but this is where the good things end . 
the music is blaring , the floors moving , the ceiling morphing and the pictures on the walls screaming -- and all of this , every second , every moment of screen time , is absolutely without life . 
it's nothing more than a special effects-extravaganza ; visually impressive , but intellectually hollow thriller that simply doesn't engage . 
at first you do not know what's going on . 
is this part of the experiment ? 
are these hallucinations ? 
projections of the subconscience ? 
paranoia ? 
but in the end it shows out that this is actually happening . 
the house is actually possessed . 
it is at that point when all your hopes for a good entertainment disappears out of the window . 
for ever , i sat in anticipation for a decent climax and that's what i got ? 
i believe hichock once said that " it's better to wait for a climax , than to see one " . 
this may be true , and it might actually work , but there is only one problem -- jan de bont is not hichock and the things that he shows are not scary , only stupid . 
they are impossible to take seriously . 
any paralells that you might have heard before , linking this picture to kubrick's " the shining " , are absolutely baseless . 
 " shining " had class , style , story , acting , but most of all talent and originality . 
 " haunting " has only special effects and art direction to boast of . 
and those elements alone are not enough to make it a good film . 
casting good actors for small , pale parts only makes things worse . 
but i guess that no matter what i or other critics say or write , most of you will see this film anyway , even if the tagline would say : " some films are just born stupid " . 
porter stoddard ( warren beatty ) is a successful architect married to successful fabric designer ellie ( diane keaton ) for twenty-five years . 
they and best friends mona ( goldie hawn ) and griffin ( garry shandling ) are about to face marital crises in a film most well known for its torturous path to the screen , " town and country . " 
 " town and country " has a pedigree befitting it's title with an all star cast photographed by oscar nominated cinematographer william fraker and mouthing the words of screenwriter buck henry ( " the graduate " ) under the direction of peter chelsom ( " funny bones " ) . 
after years of reports of budget overruns and reshoots and the racking up twelve different release dates , the media has been prepped for beatty's next " ishtar . " 
so , is it that bad ? 
the answer is no . 
but it's not very good either . 
the major problem with " town and country " is that it's unstructured and random . 
stoddard is immediately established as a philanderer , having just bedded a flaky cellist ( nastassja kinski ) . 
next scene finds him and ellie celebrating their anniversary in paris with mona and griffin . 
then mona spies griffin hustling a redhead into a motel and begins divorce proceedings ( buck henry cameos as both couples' divorce lawyer ) . 
ellie thinks she's overeacting , but sends porter to support mona on a trip to check out her family's mississippi manse . 
the two childhood friends end up in bed together , making us wonder why they'd never become a couple to begin with . 
back home , their second coupling is interrupted by ellie bursting in to tell mona she thinks porter's cheating on her . 
porter goes off on a trip with griffin to sun valley , idaho to have more comic misadventures with wacky women as griffin attempts to tell him that he's gay . 
the four friends , along with every woman porter's dallied with , all end up back in new york city somewhat happily ever after . 
although the film begins promisingly , resembling a woody allen take on new york city wasps , too many strands drift off into nowhere . 
the stoddard household is huge , containing two adult children ( josh hartnett , " the virgin suicides " and tricia vessey , " kiss the girls " ) , their colorful bedmates and a maid who's just imported her shirtless boyfriend from the rainforest back home . 
after an amusing early scene that has porter overhearing three bouts of lovemaking while in search of a nocturnal snack , the six supporting players are dropped except for an out-of-nowhere appearance by the formerly forgotten son . 
porter's romantic misadventures with women ( other than mona ) are equally mishandled . 
once the marital discord begins , the film seems as if it was editted with a machete , stopping and starting , never regaining its rhythm . 
while beatty gets off a few tart observations , his character is mostly passive and bemused . 
maybe we're supposed to feel sympathy for an adulterer who doesn't initiate his own sex romps ? 
keaton's ellie has a trusting nature that's a result of her own self involvement resulting in an unlikeable character . 
hawn smartly recycles her mature sex kitten wives of " the out of towners " and " the first wives' club " while shandling's relegated to true second banana status . 
kinski is bland and unmotivated . 
andie macdowell takes a weirdly unappealing role and does what she can with the screenplay's most bizarre subplot , which finds charlton heston as her rifle toting , billionaire daddy and marian seldes as her alcoholic , wheelchair-bound , foul-mouthed mother . 
heston and seldes are fun , as is jenna elfman as a sun valley bait and tackle salesgirl who brings porter and griffin to a halloween party . 
oscar nominatored cinematographer william fraker gives the film a nice look , but director chelsom shows none of the quirkily and blackly humorous depth he brought to films like " hear my song " and " funny bones . " 
the script is this film's weakest link - it's telling that most of the ( few ) laughs come from old-fashioned physical slapstick and the sight of beatty in a bear suit . 
while " town and country " isn't exactly painful to sit through , it mostly just lays there . 
 * * the following review contains spoilers * * 
 " please someone stop joel schumacher before he vomits into a film canister again and tries to pass it off as a movie . " 
-- chuck dowling , the jacksonville film journal 
i wrote the above sentence in my review for 1997's batman and robin . 
apparently , no one heard my words . 
oh , how i wish you had heard them . 
oh how i wish someone had stopped him . . . 
because he's done it again . 
the plot of 8mm is similar to the 1977 paul schrader film hardcore , a surprisingly decent and engrossing tale . 
in fact , it was everything that 8mm is not . 
in the opening minutes of 8mm , we see private detective tom welles ( nicolas cage ) working on a case for a prestigious member of the u . s . government . 
keep this fact in mind , cage is trusted with an important case , which he solves . 
he returns home to his wife and new daughter , and even finds time to rake his yard ( keep that in mind too , it's important as well ) . 
he's hired by a rich elderly woman to solve a mystery . 
after her husband's death she comes across a film in his private safe . 
it appears to be snuff film , a sort of urban legend of the pornography industry in which someone is actually brutally murdered for the camera . 
the woman wants welles to locate the young girl in the film , hopefully to disprove that it is in fact a snuff film . 
so he sets off on a journey into the sordid underworld of sleaze to discover the truth about the film . 
the main problem with 8mm is that the whole film is completely pointless . 
welles is actually selected for the case by the old woman's lawyer ( anthony heald , an actor who always plays the same type of character , that being a bad guy ) . 
when you first see him , your first instinct is that he's behind the whole thing . 
the choice of casting does the film in . 
then , as welles begins his investigation , at times we will see a shadowy figure following him . 
the only person it could possibly be is the lawyer ( or someone sent by the lawyer ) because no one knows welles is even investigating anything yet . 
so your first instinct has now been confirmed . 
then , when it is in fact revealed that the lawyer is a part of the whole thing , he tells welles that he was chosen for the case because he was young and inexperienced ( in one of those ridiculous " since we're going to kill you anyway , why not tell you the whole thing " moments ) . 
but earlier when we see welles being hired for the case he's told that he was hired because he comes highly recommended . 
huh ? 
also , when the lawyer reveals himself to be a part of the whole thing , his main goal is to get the film back . 
so why did he give it up in the first place ? ! 
the lawyer had the film the whole time , then gave it away to the private detective thinking that he would just give up on the case and return the film ? ! 
it's totally absurd . . . 
and this is the screenwriter of seven ? 
late in the film there's a confrontation between all the main characters , and after a struggle one of the character's guns ends up underneath a car . 
cage , who has been handcuffed to a bed , is rapidly trying to get to his gun , which is on a table . 
james gandolfini's character goes for the gun under the car in what is supposed to be a scene of " suspense " . 
you see , the gun is just slightly out of reach from the side of the car he's trying to reach it from , and so instead of going around the car to the other side ( where he can easily reach it ) he just keeps stretching . 
go around to the other side of the car ! ! 
this goes on for minutes . 
then , after cage gets his gun , gandolfini then decides it would be best to go around to the other side of the car . 
boy , schumacher is really really getting on my nerves . 
i think the final straw would be when cage returns home , devastated by everything that he's seen on this case , and then is no longer able to rake his lawn ! 
we actually see a shot of him pathetically poking at leaves in his yard . 
other things that bugged me about 8mm : one would be the music , if you can call it that . 
whenever the score starts up , it sounds like techno music , and then this awful indian or middle eastern type music will accompany it . 
awful decision there joel . 
another is cage's performance . 
at this point he's capable of a wide range of performances , either good or bad . 
for 8mm , he delivers a very wooden one , and only shines when he's interacting with joaquin phoenix ( who gives a great performance as a porn shop clerk with a heart of gold who helps cage with his case ) . 
you're capable of much better mr . cage . 
now as for you mr . schumacher . . . 
i'm starting to doubt if you're capable of anything else besides urinating onto the institution of american cinema . 
[r] 
there have been bad films in recent years : 'mr . 
magoo' was by far the worst ever made , the spectacularly bad 'blue in the face' , the horrible 'baby genuises' and now 'i woke up early the day i died' . 
it may not however be the worst movie made but it certainly ranks as one bad movie . 
the film's acting ( if that's what you want to call it ) is well mediocre to me . 
loaded with a sensational cast you would think that the cast would at least save the film a bit , boy was i wrong . 
after escaping from a mental institution 'the thief' played by billy zane goes out in the real world and finds that it is pretty harsh and gritty . 
he turns to burglary to survive , robs a loan back , kills the loan officer and runs with thousands . 
a country-wide man hunt is on for him to catch him and bring him down . 
he ends up in a cemetery where he puts his money in a coffin to keep it for later , comes back and realizes that someone took it and put it somewhere . 
now he is determined to kill all the visitors at the funeral earlier that day until he gets his money back , ultimately leading to a finale that is less that satisfying . 
a film which was based on a 'long-lost' script by ed wood , i have only one question : no dialogue , only music and movement where exactly is the point ? 
the film moves along at a rather slow pace , but does have one advantage : the soundtrack which is catchy and vibrant except the first song which can be offensive to some . 
it opens with a fun , innovative opening credits sequence and quickly goes downhill after that . 
some of the low points are when 'the thief' steals a woman's purse , and then she faints , sandra bernhard as a dancer and tippi hendren as a deaf woman whom 'the thief' kills to the music of 'psycho' . 
come on people get some new ideas already ! 
what's even worse is that the film has no plot at all . 
well to a certain extent it does , but who cares by the time the middle of the film arrives we're bored out of our mind and ready for something fun and exciting to happen . 
'i woke up early the day i died' is a perfectly bad film . 
it shows us how low filmmakers get sometimes just when desperate to make a movie . 
even with the huge cast talent , the film is a waste of my time and certainly a waste of yours . 
it would be hard to choose the best american political thriller . 
some people would probably pick the manchurian candidate and others ( myself included ) would pick seven days in may . 
both those films were tense exercises in chills . 
the two films came out within two years of each other and both were directed by the same man , john frankenheimer . 
but that was 1962 and 1964 respectively . 
for most of the rest of his career frankenheimer has turned out some decent films , but has shown little of the promise that those two thrillers showed . 
each of those films had memorable characters and a tense plot . 
they had almost nothing in the way of chases or gunplay . 
the thrills all came from the plot . 
ronin is like a film made by another man . 
somewhere behind all the shooting and explosions and car chases there are the rudiments ofa plot , but we see only tiny pieces of it . 
we get a clue here and one there as to what is going on but j . d . zeik's screenplay is a bit obscure . 
the film begins explaining that a ronin is a masterless samurai . 
when a samurai has failed in the job of protecting his master from death , he becomes a ronin , much like a gunfighter in the american west . 
if you miss the opening , do not worry . 
this film will explain again what a ronin is . 
sam ( played by robert de niro ) is the modern equivalent of a ronin . 
he is a free agent who seems to have really good instincts about how to stay alive the world of a professional killer . 
he clearly was in a dangerous business at one time and now he seems to be drifting around on his own somewhere in france . 
sam is recruited from a montmartre bar by dierdre ( natascha mcelhone of the truman show ) , an irish woman , to be part of an action to steal a mysterious metal case . 
dierdre is very tight-lipped about what is in the case . 
sam joins a team of four others : vincent ( jean reno of the professional/leon and mission impossible ) , spence ( sean bean , tv's richard sharpe , and also patriot games and goldeneye ) , and gregor ( stellan skarsgard of breaking the waves and good will hunting ) . 
also along is larry ( skipp suddeth ) . 
the group seems to know their business , particularly sam , but each is in his own way cold and professional with his own field of expertise . 
their only human side seems to be in tensions among the members of the team . 
the story is not very easy to follow . 
it is never clear who is double-crossing whom and who is working for whom . 
somehow russians ( who may or may not be the russian mafia ) and irish radicals are involved trying to get their hands on a certain metal case . 
some very good actors are involved in this film . 
one wonders what they saw in the script . 
the characters are mostly one-dimensional professional killers . 
they know their work , and seeing their thought patterns adds some interest to the film , but for this group deep feeling between two people is teaming up with another killer so that neither is killed . 
by the end of the film we never really got to know anybody . 
maybe that is the secret of why such good actors took parts , since these are not very demanding characters to create . 
in addition to the above characters the film also features jonathan pryce and michael lonsdale ( the latter of moonraker and of the superior thriller the day of the jackal ) . 
as a revival of a sort of action film that was popular in the 1960s , i was hoping that there would be something here to grab onto and enjoy . 
unfortunately there are no deep characters , and little to make us care who eventually ends up with the metal case or why they want it . 
i rate ronin a 4 on the 0 to 10 scale and a 0 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
non-spoiler : incidentally , the tale of the 47 ronin has been filmed multiple times , usually under the title chushingura or as the 47 ronin . 
also one frequently sees in japanese art the image of a man breaking down a door with a huge mallet . 
this is the first blow of the 47 ronin . 
the main problem with martin lawrence's pet project , a thin line between love and hate , like any fatal attraction variation where the protagonist is a man , is that his character is an irresponsible jerk , and if that is the case , it doesn't seem to do anything except justify the woman's actions . 
that is especially the case in lawrence's darnell wright . 
he is one of those macho guys with women lined up a mile long . 
now don't think i condone this just because i'm male . 
my philosophy is , if you are one of the few heterosexual males lucky enough to get your hands on a beautiful , kind girl , you should treat her like a princess and respect her . 
darnell doesn't think like this . 
he sleeps with these girls once and dumps them . 
and by the period in the film he discovered that his newest target , beautiful , wealthy brandi web ( played nicely by whitfield ) who runs a successful real estate business , is out to kill him for dumping her for his childdhood friend mia ( king ) , i found myself thinking , " i'm supposed to feel sorry for this guy ? " 
after all , it is largely darnell's fault . 
if he is lining up all these women , you'd think he'd have enough common sense to think it would backfire on him one day , as his mother says it does . 
but he doesn't , so you get the sense that he's not only irresponsible , but also pretty dumb . 
you especially get this sense that he's dumb after brandi tells him she killed her husband for allegedly abusing her . 
 ( i'd put my pants on in two seconds after that ! ) 
now , brandi is a psycho bitch , but it's hard not to agree with what she says to darnell during the finale about guys like him treating her like garbage . 
one final flaw , though , is letting brandi fall for darnell to begin with . 
brandi is a classy , intelligent woman with an mba from harvard , who initally resists darnell's " immature play " as she calls it , as any woman like her would in real life . 
but all of a sudden she says yes . 
but when you listen to darnell's four letter word vocabulary watch his actions , you wonder why such an intelligent woman would fall for a guy like darnell period , much less have such an unhealthy obsession for him ! 
lawrence can be good when he wants to , but in order to prove it , he needs to let other people write and direct his movies . 
look at this movie . 
four writers , as a result it's too long ( two hours , when it could've easily worked at ninety minutes ! ) and it has a lot of subplots and characters that appear and disappear as quickly as they came ( which makes me think the writers didn't get along ) , all of which isn't necessary . 
there are some bright spots , though . 
whitfield , regina king , della reese , and bobby brown all do what they can with lazily written parts , and they help it out a lot . 
and there are some funny parts ( like , for example , the scene where reese attempts to fight whitfeld for harrassing her son and damaging her property ) , but they're just not enough to sustain the film . 
capsule : lesbianism examined in the same hushed and reverential tones reserved for a terminal illness . 
potentially interesting idea made stagy and boring . 
claire of the moon is such an impossibly serious and sober movie that i was waiting for someone to sneeze , just to break the ice . 
it's a perfect example of what my wife calls an s . f . e . 
movie , where s . f . e . 
means so f * * * ing earnest . 
movies like this need wit and brashness to be absorbing . 
claire is one strained speech after another , written delivered with all of the energy and spontenaity of a dmv clerk . 
claire takes two women , claire and noel , both writers , and throws them together in the same cabin at a women-only writer's retreat . 
claire wrights light comedy , while noel is a scholarly authority on porn and sexual behavior . 
obviously , the two of them are going to have plenty to talk about , and for the entire one hundred and twelve insufferable minutes of this movie , that's all they do : talk . 
the movie sets up its ( microscopic ) plot with beat-a-dead-horse-into-glue obviousness . 
the evening talks at the camp are chaired by a motherly type named maggie , a self-professed lesbian , and when noel owns up to also being a lesbian , claire looks like she's been hit with a sockful of wet sand . 
the movie then quickly degenerates into lots of scenes where noel glances at claire with significance , and claire looks out over the water reflectively . 
 ( ugh ! ) 
the most amazing thing about the movie is how people so intelligent can talk so much and yet get so little through their thick heads . 
all of this , of course , leads up to a scene of complete inevitability : claire and noel , in a scene that should have come an hour earlier , because then the movie ends without even the benefit of reflection about what's just happened . 
we never get a hint about how any of this has changed anyone , only how they felt about things that didn't even happen yet . 
the problem with claire . . . 
is not lesbianism as such , but the leaden way it's handled . 
why is it that any " serious " ( a better word would be adult or at least thoughtful ) examination of sex in a movie almost always winds up producing a movie that's unwatchably boring ? 
the way this movie deals with lesbianism , we might as well be watching an overheated docudrama about aids . 
many other movies have used the same subject in ways that are a thousand times better -- more engaging , more creative , more intellectually and artistically interesting . 
look at john sayles' lianna , or the interesting and little-seen desert bloom ; both of them have more life and vibrancy than claire . 
what this movie needed was a good swift kick in the pants . 
the great actor james woods once said ( and i'm paraphrasing ) , " if sex isn't messy , then you're not doing it right " . 
a truly profound statement , and one that could be made for the entire mad slasher genre ( just replace " sex " with " your mad slasher film " ) . 
for those uninformed souls , the mad slasher genre ( or sub-genre ) is a melding of horror and exploitation elements put to the service of a plot that follows an identical outline : a usually masked but always crazed killer stalks and kills attractive teens a la halloween . 
urban legend is a mad slasher flick , but one that is so sanitary , bloodless , and nudity free , that with its irony laden dialogue and beautiful ( though not overly talented ) cast , it more closely resembles an overlong wb television special . 
for film makers , gore is one of the two weapons they have at their disposal in a stale , fright-free horror movie , as stephen king once said ( again paraphrasing ) " if you can't scare your audience , gross em' out , if you can't do that , make em' laugh " . 
alas , urban legend succeeds only at the latter , though not by intention . 
i actually find the fact that this film became a minor success ( $40 million domestic box office gross ) more frightening than anything in it . 
it seems that audiences' tastes have been whittled down to such a degree that any movie even claiming to be scary is given the benefit of the doubt . 
the promotion for urban legend sure promised thrills , but how can anyone with a three digit iq argue that it provides them . 
unfortunately , these kinds of flicks will continue to be produced because people no longer have expectations ; one idiotic super-hyped blockbuster flick after another has desensitized audiences to the point where films don't need to do anything more than promise a good time without the added pressure of delivering . 
if anyone disagrees i would love for them to explain the box office successes of shit like batman and robin , wild wild west , and godzilla . 
but forget all that , it goes without saying that mad slasher films ( or any other exploitation off-shoot ) will be made without an ounce of craft ( especially considering the sheer volume that are produced ) . 
allow me to present you with the real fault of the mad slasher film : the lack of enthusiastic exploitation . 
these flicks aren't harnessed with any lofty aspirations , so why not break free and give your audience a bloody good time ? 
sadly out of the literally hundreds made , i would estimate that maybe three are at all worth while . 
and urban legend would certainly not be included amongst those three . 
despite its considerable production value and the absence of any boom mics slipping into frame , it is just as awful as any no budget entry in the slasher sweepstakes . 
as far as the possibility of some good natured exploitation urban legend's setting alone offers a myriad of promising possibilities : it takes place on a college campus , which is always an appropriate playground for the crazed killer . 
you see , the campus is a community made up almost entirely of young people all in the midst of strange hormonal surges percolating beneath the surface . 
all those young people are growing up together , going through all kinds of inexplicable emotional highs and lows , so naturally some weirdness is expected . 
all the better for that elusive crazed killer . 
coupled with the copious amounts of scantily clad coeds running around , and the introduction of a little exploitation into the proceedings should be a relatively easy task . 
but alas , urban legend is not only idiotic and clich ? ? full ; it's way too clean , a slasher flick for the whole family with no nudity , little gore , and much stupidity . 
this is the kind of movie where the killer drags dead victims from the scene of the crime for no reason other than , i dunno , exercise . 
it's the kind of movie where the villain calmly purses a running-like-the-wind-prey , yet still manages to catch that prey through some really awful editing techniques . 
it's the kind of movie where characters run into each other just as a loud clash reverberates on the soundtrack . 
i really wish filmmakers would just retire that whole loud-noise-jump-scare thing . 
yes the audience jumps , momentarily frightened , but wouldn't anyone if a loud sonic boom suddenly infiltrated a quiet room . 
i lost all hope for the possibility of any genuine scares in urban legend about ten minutes in when i caught a glimpse of the killer . 
apparently filmmakers are running out of creative ways to disguise their mad slashers . 
in scream it was a ghost mask ( scary enough ) , in i know what you did last summer it was a fisher man's rain slicker ( in the middle of summer no less ) , and in urban legend the disguise sinks to the level of mel brooks parody : the villain wears an oversized parka with a fury hood ( ooh ? ? ? scary ) intended to conceal his/her identity . 
for urban legend 2 i humbly suggest a donald duck costume . 
though i must admit , urban legend does have a winning premise for what could have been a somewhat entertaining exploitation film . 
the film's killer slices and dices comely college students to the tune of famous urban legends ( you know , like the babysitter gets threatening phone calls only to find that they're coming from inside the house ) . 
i won't spoil the surprise as to what urban legends are used , after all the film does offer fine 2 : 00 am cable viewing if you happen to be intoxicated enough . 
sad to say , it doesn't include my favorite urban legend : a fairly graphic antidote concerning richard gere and a very unhappy gerbil . 
now that would be scary . 
before i leave you , i would like to bring to your attention the third most irritating thing about the film ( the first being the lack of craft , the second the lack of exploitation ) -- its characters , all of whom are just about the most annoying group of people i've ever spent an evening with . 
only jared leto ( looking like a carbon copy of rob lowe from back in the day ) and alicia witt , as the resilient heroine , avoid vexatiousness . 
the most annoying of the bunch is a tie between noxima girl rebecca gayheart and sitcom star michael rosenbaum , as a supremely irritating lout ( so irritating i actually cheered his painful death , and i am not a cruel person ) . 
ironically those aggravating sacks of human waste provide the only entertainment in the film ; if viewed as a vicarious fantasy urban legend can be mildly entertaining . 
after all this is a movie that features the kind of faux hipsters i can't stand getting slaughtered , which is at least better than watching an entire film about people i can't stand not getting slaughtered . 
the premise of turbulence is i'm sure very familiar to us all . 
we've seen it before in passenger 57 , executive decision , and countless other flicks that are good in there own way . 
you know , terrorists take over a plane , ask the police on the ground for what they what and so on . 
turbulence starts out with a " convict " ray liotta being accused of a crime . 
you think there is no way he could have done it , he's so open and kind . 
he is taken in and is subsequently transported on a commerical plane to la . 
this is already a problem . 
there is no way that convicts would be transported on the same commercial flight that normal passangers would be on . 
anyway , it is christmas eve and everyone is waiting to get to la and spend christmas eve there . 
well , convict one manages to stop the flight in its proverbial " tracks " and liotta , still as calm as ever , takes the other convict out . 
he also has eyes for lauren holly , a flight attendent , and seems to grow closer to her . 
 " the plot stops here " 
i didn't like this movie because it seemed to be a rip off of every other airplane movie i've ever seen . 
at one point , mr . liotta looked exactly like jack nicholson in the shining ( i'm serious ! ) . 
it was like they stole for every other movie down to a " t " . 
the only reason i did not give this 0 stars is because it had some okay stunts . 
don't even bother ! 
a movie laced with a good blend of action , comedy , and a heavy dose of musical celebrity guest appearances sounds pretty gourmet , but even the best ingredients can be thrown together in the wrong way , creating a dismal and unsatisfactory product . 
eighteen years after the blues brothers hit theaters , blues brothers 2000 is being unleashed , minus half of its original duo ( the late john belushi ) and nearly all of its original charm . 
dan aykroyd reprises his role ( as well as his co-writing credit ) as elwood blues , the sharp dressed con man who wreaked havoc on a self-proclaimed " mission from god " along with his brother jake and their blues brothers band nearly eighteen years ago . 
as we begin , elwood is being released from a state penitentiary along with the news of his brother's death in prison years ago . 
completely on his own , elwood decides to trace his roots back to the orphanage where he spent his childhood , only to discover that everyone he has ever known has passed away . 
but elwood isn't completely without family . 
it seems he has a half-brother of sorts - not a real brother mind you , just the illegitimate child of his bluesman pseudo-father curtis ( cab calloway from the first film ) , who has also passed on . 
despite inklings from mother superior mary stigmata ( kathleen freeman ) to do otherwise , elwood seeks out his only remaining family in an effort to start up an all new blues brothers band . 
working as a police commander , cabel chamberlain ( joe morton ) , has an immediate disliking for elwood , who nonchalantly fills cab in on his mother's affair years ago and then goes on to steal his wallet . 
following elwood around is the lonely orphan buster ( j . 
evan bonifant ) , who quickly learns to become a mini-elwood . 
when bartender mighty mack mcteer ( john goodman ) joins the group , the blues brothers band is complete , and once again , the group travels the country , crashing cars , blowing things up , and obstructing peace with more than just solid blues rock . 
meanwhile , cab's personal vendetta against elwood leads him on an impassioned manhunt for his next-to-next-of-kin . 
>from this point , the movie turns into a series of music videos with a few bits of acting in between . 
those hoping for an interesting and/or funny yarn are given too many musical interludes while those heavily interested in the music are given too much of a story . 
only the extremely avid blues fans should attempt getting thru these two hours . 
for those people , it may be worth it , for luckily there is much more music than shoddy attempts at acting , but when the story does intrude upon the festivities , the film is heavily bogged down with unfunny jokes , musicians turned stiff actors , and the pointless 10-year- old buster attempting to add some sort of home alone cuteness to the whole thing . 
appearances by musical legends such as aretha franklin , james brown , eric clapton , and a whole slew of others are the high points of the film , but they also confirm why these people are musicians and not actors . 
blues brothers 2000 is deserving of one whole star simply because if you really , really love this kind of music , you might kind of , sort of like this movie . 
many , many scenes are nauseatingly unfunny , and if you don't have a passion for very deep blues/rock , you'll be bored out of your skull . 
much of this film seems nothing more than aykroyd's self-serving vanity project , but no matter how much fun aykroyd may be having with this , none of the excitement is passed on to the audience . 
and seeing three guys in three-piece suits goofily dancing around with poker faces can only be funny for so long . 
unfortunately , those two seconds are over about fifteen minutes into the film . 
if only austin powers : the spy who shagged me had been just half as original , zany , silly and totally enjoyable as its predecessor , it would have easily been one of this summer's biggest pleasures . 
if only . 
in fact , the spy who shagged me is the exact opposite of the original ; instead of refreshing the audience with one clever parody after another , the filmmakers bombard us with used-up , tired jokes taken directly from the first one . 
take the scene where austin powers ( again played by mike myers , but with only a fraction of the giddy enthusiasm he displayed previously ) confronts a henchmen on the side of a cliff . 
after being pushed off the ravine , the bad guy is of course assumed dead . 
but suddenly , we hear a pleading voice coming from down below ; he's only injured . 
a similar scene played very well in the original international man of mystery , but here i was insulted by it . 
did the filmmakers really believe the audience would laugh at a rip-off ? 
apparently i overestimated the intelligence of the average movie-goer , considering that the film has pulled in over $200 million in domestic theatrical grosses alone . 
do i hear the sound of a franchise heading our way ? 
having said that , though , i still cannot deny the film its merits . 
the basic plot was delightfully silly enough to sustain my interest somewhat ; dr . evil ( mike myers , in the second of his three roles ) , having constructed a time machine , goes back to the year 1969 in an attempt to snatch austin power's " mojo " ( don't you just love that word ? ) 
whilst he is cryogenically frozen . 
when austin gets wind of this ( after a great intro explaining the absence of elizabeth hurley's vanessa kensington ) , he too travels back in time to re-claim his sexual drive , accompanied by the hot-to-trot felicity shagwell , played by heather graham . 
this sounds stupid , i know , but in the movie it starts to make some kind of weird , off-the-wall sense , and it worked for me . 
then there's mini-me ( verne troyer ) , a . . . 
petite clone of myer's dr . evil , exactly 1/8 in size . 
troyer's persona alone gains the film an extra half-star , contributing to one particularly hilarious scene where he attempts to nibble on his own mini-mr . 
bigglesworth . 
just try to ignore the fact that , at 2'8'' , he would make dr . evil's height rise to just over 21 feet . 
no matter . 
however , there are only about four hearty laughs throughout the entire hour and a half ( the most notable being the now infamous tent scene ) , and that just isn't enough to warrant even a minor recommendation . 
if there is in fact an " austin powers 3 " , they should just kill off secret agent powers and put the emphasis on dr . evil and mini-me . 
unconventional , yes , but there's no denying that it'd make for a better movie . 
in the series of the erotic thrillers that flooded the videoshelves in the early 1990s came this french-canadian co-production by max fischer . 
the movie is set in paris where its hero , struggling american author david mirkine ( judd nelson , at the time specialised in playing losers and people at the edge of sanity ) suffers a terrible writers bloc . 
he manages to overcome crisis after beginning romantic relationship with beautiful model anabelle ( laurence treill ) . 
unfortunately , she hangs out in jet set circles , which gradually makes mirkine pathologically jealous . 
her connection with powerful david caravan ( pierce brosnan ) would make mirkine step the line between reason and sanity and put in motion whole series of violent and tragic events . 
although few pseudoerotic scenes and some elements of the plot do indeed make this film an erotic thriller , drama would probably be more appropriate genre label . 
pacing of the film is simply too slow to thrill the viewers , and those patient enough to sit through its entirety have to wait a long time between any interesting or significant developments . 
low budget also becomes painfully visible , and physical attributes of laurence treill are the only thing worth watching in this film . 
unfortunately , this film has too little of those supposedly erotic scenes , so those who wanted to watch erotic thriller have all the reasons to feel disappointed . 
instead , they would have to settle with pointless , slow scenes involving nelson , brosnan and laurence treill's attempts of serious acting . 
all of those definitely not worth spending hour and half of someone's precious time . 
here i sit at my computer about to write my review of the recent action comedy " bait " starring jamie foxx and david morse . 
this is a review i don't even want to write because i'd just be laying the same criticisms on it that i would with any other so-generic-and-predictable-it's-beyond-ridiculous piece of hollywood fluff . 
if they're not going to give us , the audience , just a little credit and put something together with half a brain , why should i waste my time and mental energy criticising it ? 
last summer i took this same approach with my review of " the mummy , " in that review i just quoted phrases my reviews of other sub-par movies . 
i think i shall do the same thing here but with a few less quotes ( not all are applicable ) . 
i hope this goes to show you what i think of " bait " and why you can find out all you need to know about it without having to take a wild guess . 
it's genuinely unfunny ( i , and the other audience members only laughed once during the entire two hours ) , unoriginal and unthrilling . 
it's not so bad to the point where it's fun to watch because of its badness and it's no so bad you absolute loathe it and are pained by watching it , it's just such a cliche in and of itself , that , uhh . . . 
lost my train of thought . 
anyways , here's those quotes , enjoy ! 
 " getting an audience's attention right from the beginning plays a major role in how today's films work . 
we want to have something exciting to watch , not a slow build-up of a story ( god forbid ! ) , and this film plays right into the mainstream's hands . . . " 
- review of " armageddon . " 
 " it's clear the film doesn't want to waste time on reality and thus the attempt to establish plausability ( the most minimal amount necessary ) comes across as a half-assed effort . 
supporting characters and shady sup-plots are introduced , but as is the case with films made up of a large cast of characters , only a handful have any real significance . . . 
there's a fine line separating homage from plagiarism . . . , " - review of " godzilla " ( 1998 ) 
 " unfortunately , as is the case with most modern thrillers , once the film showed potential for authenticity and intelligence , the cliches and action sequences take over , " - review of " the jackal . " 
chad'z movie page is back after heavy renovation . 
reviews of nearly all mainstream movies playing today ! 
get my reviews of everything playing at your local cineplex so you can better make an informed decision on what to see . 
don't forget to vote on my poll and sign the guestbook ! 
tv's buffy finds herself on the other side of the supernatural spectrum in " simply irresistible . " 
sarah michelle gellar , that never-ceasing crusader against never-ending evil every tuesday night on the wb network , here plays a down-on-her-luck chef suspected of dabbling in witchcraft after her flailing restaurant receives help in the form of magically scrumptious meals . 
taste test results : some vampire slaying , though out of place , would have really livened this excruciating movie up . 
 " simply irresistible " is actually quite easy to deny , a disaster of culinary and other proportions pretty much from the opening on . 
gellar's amanda finds herself falling for harried henri bendel exec tom ( sean patrick flannery of powder ) around the same time she discovers an uncanny ability to mystically manifest emotions in her cooking , a secret ingredient that arouses both his interest in her and the public's in her tiny tribeca eatery . 
all this love and sorcery have a lot to do with the telekinetic crab that also figures into the story , a tale that at times plays like an american spin on 1993's mexican classic " like water for chocolate . " 
several differences : one , " like water " didn't have a telekinetic crab , and two , " like water " was a good film . 
 " simply irresistible , " on the other hand , is about as challenging as an easy-bake oven . 
amateurishly staged scenes cancel each other out in their badness , from an embarrassing seduction in a literal vanilla fog to an impromptu dance sequence where tom and amanda do their best fred and ginger - though fred and ginger never took part in anything this garish . 
the intrusive musical score distracts from the flat dialogue at regular intervals , but it's not like you're were going to miss much . 
in fact , take away the few instances of salty language and this has made-for-disney channel written all over it . 
but a majority of " simply irresistible " 's resistibility factor has less to do with the afore-mentioned overkill than the bland leads - tom and amanda are so thin and ambiguously defined that there's just no fun rooting for their inevitable " happily ever after . " 
nor do the otherworldly powers that serve to bring them together make sense , so we're left with a ho-hum relationship based on enchanted eclairs ; it's not going to last long , people . 
perhaps sensing this , the filmmakers have piled on weird supporting characters for acting vets like betty buckley , dylan baker and patricia clarkson , but they don't go anywhere either . 
in fact , nothing in " simply irresistible " goes anywhere save for gellar , and she doesn't go somewhere so much as you wish she'd go _somewhere_ - like to a better movie . 
already proving major talent with relatively few big- and small-screen roles , she's the sole reason this overcooked souffle isn't completely fit for the garbage disposal , looking smashing in her todd oldham-designed duds and investing much more in her perfunctory part than she ever gets in return . 
it's certainly a dish best not served in it's current condition , but one can only guess that , without gellar , " simply irresistible " would be strictly unwatchable . 
the 13th warrior reeks so badly of melodrama and poor acting that it carries a worst scent than a canine's least appetizing residue . 
the best part of the film would be a close contest between the closing credits and a brief moment in the middle where the screen goes entirely white and you hope that the film has slipped and caught ablaze in the projector . 
my vote goes for the ending credits , where you can start trying to put the awful experience behind you . 
ibn fahdlan ( antonio banderas ) is an important official who is banished from his home for sleeping with another man's wife . 
he encounters a group of norse warriors who convince him to join them on a mysterious journey to be taken by 13 men . 
fahdlan is chosen as the 13th and last warrior in a moment that is so desperately overacted and overdone that numerous persons at the screening i attended broke out into laughter . 
the movie proves to be a new low point for banderas , who's acting seems closer to that of his role as the lover and caretaker for a dying gay man in 1993's philadelphia , than that of a warrior . 
in the film's supposed pay off scene , he exclaims " i was wrong , these are not men ! " , 
a line intended to be the most memorable quote of the production . 
unfortunately , banderas delivers it in a fashion that makes chevy chase's career look like oscar material . 
the film , based on michael crichton's best selling novel , eaters of the dead was shot under that name some three years ago , and after numerous rewrites not only does the dialogue seem completely phony , but the plot is incredibly difficult to follow . 
at the same time , the 13th warrior makes you think about numerous questions . 
questions like " why do the characters always have perfect lighting on them even when it is pitch dark ? " , 
 " why does no one ever have blood cover both sides of their face , but rather just one side ? " 
and finally , " will the manager give me a refund ? " 
90 minutes into the 103 minute film , a man invites of the warriors " come with me , there is a woman who can help . " 
unfortunately , there is nothing that could help this film . 
the most appropriate ending would have been for the 13 men to join hands , form a chorus line , and break into a rendition of " springtime for hitler . " 
i've heard it called " jaws with claws " and that's a fair summation of the plot , though that tag line does little to quantify quality . 
director stephen hopkins ( blown away , predator 2 ) and screenwriter william goldman ( maverick , misery ) would have you believe that this is an epic historical drama about man against nature , based on what really happened in africa to the railroad workers trying to build a bridge to the 20th century . 
they've stacked the deck with two big stars ( val kilmer , michael douglas ) , a bigger production design , beautiful photography ( by academy award winner vilmos zsigmond ) , and a score so overblown that it makes the lion king soundtrack sound like chamber music . 
the movie doesn't make a lick of sense , though , either as an epic or as your basic boo-fest . 
in fact , some of the bits are so laughably ludicrous that you may think you've stumbled into the sequel to mystery science theater 3000 : the movie . 
how about the three guys with rifles , who trap a lion and then can't even hit the damned thing ? 
or the ham-on-wry acting of michael douglas , who chews more scenery than the animals ever do ? ? 
or , my favorite , lions so agile that they can even climb onto rooftops ? ! ? 
billy crystal reappears in yet another high concept comedy . 
he tries to infuse some life into it , but it gets bogged down with sentimentality and a lack of sophistication . 
sammy ( billy crystal ) is a struggling agent at the end of his ropes . 
he's separated from his wife , serena ( kathleen quinlan ) , and down to his last serious client . . . in a low-budget film shooting in romania . 
but in a turn of bad luck , sammy wrecks his car . . . only 
to be mysteriously saved by a giant ( gheorghe muresan ) . 
but this giant has a heart of gold . 
he leads a solitary life , helping out the monks at a local monastery . 
his only longing is for his long lost love , lilianna ( joanna pacula ) , who has since moved to america . 
sammy , seeing a golden ticket , convinces max to become an actor ( represented by sammy , of course ) , and come back to america . 
and so sam and max bounce from pathetic job to pathetic job , with sammy dangling a meeting with lilianna as a carrot before max's nose . 
but slowly sammy's deceptions begin to haunt him . 
but will he develop a conscience before the innocent max becomes disillusioned . 
the humor in my giant isn't the world's greatest . 
mostly , it falls under the category of " boy . . . he's 
so big ! " , 
and that can only go so far , no matter how hard the talent tries . 
still , its slightly amusing parts are longed for when the movie gets bogged down in sappy moments . 
the film's best moment ( and that's not saying much ) is a bit part by steven seagal , playing himself . 
between executive decision and this , all of seagal's best roles have been cameos . 
maybe he should consider a change of work : steven seagal , the character actor ! 
gheorghe muresan isn't a natural actor at all , and his thick cotton-mouthed accent certainly doesn't help . 
in fact the only thing he adds to the role is his immense stature . 
originally , the concept was designed several years ago for andre the giant . 
andre also had a hefty accent , but he displayed a knack for comedy in the princess bride . . . something 
muresan should have studied for some pointers . 
why does billy crystal continually get caught in these pathetic comedies ? 
he's proven that he can be much funnier than these formulaic films allow him to be , and yet , like a glutton for punishment , he keeps coming back . 
that doesn't mean we have to . 
movies can do the two big es very well : educate and entertain . 
in the best of all possible worlds , they accomplish both . 
on the red planet , they fail entirely . 
in the near future , a manned mission is sent to mars to observe primitive plant growth . 
this film does a remarkable job of demonstrating exactly how exciting watching algae grow would be . 
after some mumbo-jumbo about an ecological disaster on earth and an interminable wait to reach the fourth planet , the ship falls apart almost as fast as the movie does . 
the ground crew of people you couldn't care less about is trapped on the surface without food , water or air and stalked by a deadly rogue cyberdog . 
the one potentially interesting character ( carrie-anne moss ) spends her time alone in the orbiting ship talking to a computer . 
attempting to graft " 2001 " esque space mysticism with " terminator " robot horror , first time director antony hoffman can't seem to figure out what's going on . 
neither can we . 
didn't he have anyone who could step back from the shooting and make sure there was a coherent story ? 
couldn't he have used the money saved by only having to pay half a dozen actors to hire a scriptwriter ? 
there are so many mis-steps . 
every opportunity to create dynamic tension is thwarted by plot holes and lackluster direction . 
why introduce the theme of faith vs . science if the crewman who could comment on it disappears early only to die _offscreen_ ? 
the audience begins the film waiting for something to happen . 
two hours later , they're still waiting . 
despite our greatest hopes , there is no life on the red planet . 
capsule : an insult . 
a stupid and incompetent movie that doesn't even have the benefit of being trashily enjoyable . 
weslely and woody would do well to leave this off their resumes . 
money train is one of the worst movies i have ever seen . 
it's not simply idiotic , it's contemptuous of its audience . 
it tries to make us swallow things that a better movie would be stopped cold by or just plain omit entirely . 
it's a waste of wesley snipes and woody harrelson , who are enjoyable actors in their own rights but are nauseating here . 
it's not even fun as trash . 
woody and wesley star ( maybe that's not the right word ) as new york city transit authority police . 
they have a job which could actually be the core of a really interesting movie : one of them plays drunk possum to attract chain-snatchers and the other does lookout . 
i had a whole headful of legal and ethical questions surrounding this , raised by a documentary i'd seen on the subject once , but the movie does not waste any time with being intelligent or thought-provoking . 
see if you can follow this . 
they chase a kid down the tunnel and into the station where the " money train " , the heavily armored car that picks up all the cash from the token books , is parked . 
the guards on the train see this kid running at them , lift their machine guns , shout " halt ! " 
and then open fire when the kid doesn't stop running at them . 
blam , the kid's dead . 
then woody and wesley show up , and of course the other ta cops hate them ( why ? ) , and a pushing match starts , and someone gets decked , and . . . i covered my face . 
i'd seen enough . 
i've never seen a movie work so hard and in so little time to destroy , systematically , any chance of being credible or interesting . 
fed up with the bs at their job ( most of it their own goddamned fault ) , woody and wesley hatch this plot about how to rob the money train . 
hence the title , in case some of you ( all two of you ) didn't figure it out yet . 
then there's this subplot about a maniac who torches token book clerks , * and * a love story , * and * a holdup -- no , two holdups , sorry , easy to lose track in a movie this braindead -- * and * a mob boss who wants his money . 
there wasn't a minute when i gave a horse's ass about any of it . 
neither woody nor wesley play characters that are interesting for a single minute . 
we do not care about them . 
they are not interesting . 
they are noisy , loud , stupid , foolish jerks who whould have flunked out of the police academy . 
they deserve to get shot -- or run over , as the case may be . 
they only exist to rehash the kind of dynamics that was * written * into a movie like white men can't jump , and which simply does not exist here . 
they are idiots , and we're expected to root for them . 
bullcrap . 
the movie is completely schizophrenic in its tone and texture . 
what exactly is this mess ? 
a cop movie ? 
police procedure is not given a moment's genuine thought anywhere . 
a thriller ? 
the subplot with the token booth killer is inept , a throwaway that should have been ditched in the rewrite . 
a comedy ? 
the few jokes that do work are wasted . 
a drama ? 
all dramatic tension between both principals is freeze-dried and off-the-rack . 
there's not a moment in the movie where i felt like i was listening to genuine human beings talk ; it's all screenwriterese , that bizarre analect where every sentence ends in a punchline and the primary mode of expression is the unique conjunctions of four-letter words . 
 ( actual dialogue excerpt : " fuck you . " 
 " what ? " 
 " you heard me : fuck * you * . " 
 " no : fuck * you * ! " ) 
look . i'll be honest here . 
i've tried writing screenplays , and even * i * suspect that if i tried to pitch this mess , i'd get laughed out of the office . 
anyone interested in hearing my ideas for a few good movies can write me and hear my pitch , because god knows i know i can do better . 
i've weasted enough time on this piece of tripe . 
alexander dumas' the three musketeers is one of the most often-adapted literary works , and for good reason : the swashbuckler is a legend rather than just a story . 
perhaps the musketeer , a new film that " reimagines " the novel in the spirit and style of the matrix , is one adaptation too many . 
it's just awful : spiritless , silly and unforgivably boring , transforming the timeless classic into a mish-mash of old-as-time clich ? s and incoherent , repetitive action sequences . 
this time , d'artagnan is played by calvin klein model justin chambers , who can't even pronounce his character's name . 
as a boy , he watched his father get killed by febre ( tim roth ) , a lackey of power-hungry cardinal richelieu . 
he vowed to have vengeance . 
after undergoing intense training under an expert swordsman , he goes looking for his enemy . 
on his quest , he embroils himself in a struggle for control at the highest levels of the french government . 
the royal musketeers have lost their gusto , what with their jobs being taken over by the cardinal's own guards . 
only a few loyal swashbuckers remain , among them athos and portos ( who are only figureheads in this movie ) . 
together with d'artagnan , they fight to extricate the queen ( catherine deneuve ) from the traps that febre and richelieu are trying to plant . 
oh , and as an afterthought , d'artagnan falls in love with the poor maid at the local inn ( mena suvari ) . 
just thought i'd mention that . 
now , look : i don't know whose idea this was , but whoever is responsible deserves a severe tongue-lashing . 
i have nothing against " modernizing " classic works of literature - at the very least , they can inspire viewers to actually read the book - but films as dull as this have no positive side effects . 
director peter hyams , known for such masterpieces of modern cinema as timecop and end of days , has jettisoned everything that was great about dumas' masterwork : the sense of excitement , cause , and camaraderie . 
instead , we get impressively choreographed but somehow vacuous , uninvolving action sequences that emerge from emptiness and lead to nothing . 
when the musketeers finally get to holler " all for one , and one for all , " i could have sworn that was dumas rolling in his grave that i felt . 
maybe the reason for the utter lack of suspense here is the hyams's tone , which is unreasonably dark and brooding when you consider the reader's digest condensed version of the story that he gives us . 
it's as though anything that may have been construed as " fun " was purposely expunged from the production . 
the joylessness of the proceedings , from the oppressively shady lighting to the mechanical fight scenes , can be felt in every frame . 
chambers can't act ; suvari , roth and deneuve can , but aren't given the chance . 
and when push comes to shove , the use of stunt doubles is distractingly obvious , though at least roth gets to play a villain without having to wear an ape suit . 
some movies seem sloppy and careless , clearly made for a quick buck . 
with the musketeer we get the sense that it was meticulously crafted to be awful . 
the film is intricate , stylish and precise , hitting the wrong note every single time . 
in this re-make of the 1954 japanese monster film , godzilla is transformed into a " jurassic park " copy who swims from the south pacific to new york for no real reason and trashes the town . 
although some of the destruction is entertaining for a while , it gets old fast . 
the film often makes no sense ( a several-hundred foot tall beast hides in subway tunnels ) , sports second-rate effects ( the baby godzillas seem to be one computer effect multiplied on the screen ) , lame jokes ( mayor ebert and his assistant gene are never funny ) , horrendous acting ( even matthew broderick is dull ) and an unbelievable love story ( why would anyone want to get back together with maria pitillo's character ? ) . 
there are other elements of the film that fall flat , but going on would just be a waste of good words . 
only for die-hard creature feature fans , this might be fun if you could check your brain at the door . 
i couldn't . 
 ( michael redman has written this column for 23 years and has seldom had a more disorienting cinematic experience than seeing both " fear and loathing " and " godzilla " in the same evening . ) 
when i first saw the preview for cruel intentions , i turned to my friend and said , " dangerous liaisons for kids ! " 
it was clear to me that the film would be an obvious chunk of plagiarized nonsense , owing everything it is to stephen frears' 1988 masterpiece . 
imagine my surprise to see that writer/director roger kumble has given credit to his source material : choderlos de laclos is recognized for his novel les liaisons dangereuses in the opening credits . 
and i was impressed . 
in fact , i was much more impressed with this recognition than with the actual film , which is an appalling excuse for a movie . 
it's kiddie-porn hackwork , complete with earthy sex-talk and fully-clothed hand-jobs . 
i suppose this kind of movie was inevitable ; with all the teen high-school angst movies coming out , there was certainly room for a pretentious and laughable movie about a bunch of teenagers who think they're smarter and more beautiful than all the other people on earth combined . 
cruel intentions is a mess in every possible way , and it fails primarily in the way i expected it to : i hated all the characters , and i hate everything they do . 
i also hate ryan phillippe , so perhaps my opinion is not as objective as it could be . 
phillippe plays ( check out this name ) sebastian valmont . 
wow . 
isn't that a memorable name ? 
i could just say it over and over again . 
sebastian valmont . 
it kind of rolls off the tongue , in the spirit of phrases like sanguine vapors and velvet sandwich . 
sebastian valmont is the coolest guy who ever walked the earth ; there is no woman he can't have , no material object out of his reach . 
he has all the money , all the sex -- all at his fingertips . 
and , luckily , his parents never enter into his life -- no , in the world of cruel intentions , adults don't really exist . 
the ones who do are irritating . 
sebastian valmont lives with his stepsister , kathryn merteuil ( sarah michelle gellar ) , the bitch-queen of the universe , and also the woman every man wants . 
since these two rich kids are so bored , they only thing they can do is challenge each other with meaningless sexual liaisons . 
kathryn wants sebastian valmont to de-virginize cecile caldwell ( selma blair ) , a naive dork-chick who has somehow wronged kathryn . 
but it's too easy for sebastian valmont -- he wants to nail annette hargrove ( reese witherspoon ) , the " paradigm of chastity and beauty . " 
so , sebastian valmont and kathryn make a deal ( which is too explicit to state here ) . 
but -- dear god ! 
-- sebastian valmont actually begins to fall for poor annette hargrove . 
dangerous liaisons is a great movie because the characters are all believable , and because of its masterful acting . 
cruel intentions is bad for many reasons , but it lacks both believable characters and masterful acting . 
kathryn merteuil is simply a hateful witch , a girl so loathsome that i would probably enjoy pouring hot lead on her . 
she is supposed to be mean , but glenn close gave the character some depth in dangerous liaisons . 
gellar , while aesthetically pleasing , is one-dimensional and utterly repulsive . 
witherspoon has a truly beautiful face , but her character isn't the moral staple she's supposed to be : sure , she won't have sex until she's in love ( is this really a * moral * issue ? ) , but she does some things in the last few scenes that are more than a little reprehensible . 
but i can't forget mr . phillippe , who continues to exceed my expectations with his impenetrable , invulnerable blandness . 
i have to give him credit and say that he did , in fact , manage to change his facial expression about three times during the course of cruel intentions . 
and there's one point in the film in which he shouts , thereby defeating my hypothesis that he is vocally monotone . 
true , he is bad , but it doesn't help that he has no character to work with . 
kumble has drained all the interesting aspects from this character , leaving us with a sex-crazed lunatic who is supposed to be sympathetic because he falls in love with a moral flower and shuns the wicked bitch . 
the film fails in every other way , too . 
first of all , nobody talks like this . 
even the " intellectuals " i know don't bother with this kind of pointless and pretentious yammering . 
for a while , the movie looks like it might play itself for laughs , but it ends up taking itself so seriously that there's no way we can join it . 
cruel intentions also manages to come off as soft-porn in more than one scene . 
earlier i mentioned a fully-clothed hand-job ; this occurs between kathryn and sebastian valmont , both of whom are intended to be hateful at this point in the movie . 
so , if we hate them , then what's the point of an extended sex scene ? 
titillation , of course . 
it can't even work under the pretense of " meaningful love scene , " because we hate the characters . 
it's interesting to note some of the parallels between cruel intentions and dangerous liaisons . 
kumble is clearly familiar with the earlier film ; many of the scenes have a similar tone , and there are moments in frears' film that kumble imitates almost completely ( such as the last scene , in which [spoiler warning ! ] the antagonist is humiliated in front of her peers ) . 
but kids don't act like this . 
nobody acts like this . 
in his translation , roger kumble forgot character development and sympathy -- some pretty crucial elements . 
the result is a picture of confounding badness , a kiddie-porn mess that thinks it's really deep and profound . 
i'll give cruel intentions credit for realizing its influences , but that doesn't change the fact that it's awful . 
everyone knows that old rule , 'never work with children and animals . ' 
in this latest horror flick mimic case , it's 'never work with children and genetically enhanced killer animals' instead , as mimic features both of these and succeeds in doing nothing except mildly engaging the audience . 
the film begins in new york , where we see children dying from a mysterious disease , which is being carried by cockroaches . 
dr . susan tyler ( sorvino ) creates a genetically enhanced bug ( the 'judas' breed ) , however , which is designed to kill all cockroaches . 
the bug does it's job , the cockroaches all die , and the terror is gone . 
'three years later' appears on the screen , and we discover that the judas breed is back , bigger than ever , and ready to kill . 
the spin on this bug , however , is that it can mimic it's predator , and in this case . . . . it's 
humans . 
that should teach us for squishing all those bugs . 
what should be a roller coaster ride with bugs everywhere , tons of gory deaths and some massive set pieces instead turns out to be a rather subdued , almost boring movie which plods along at a very slow pace . 
perhaps the movie was trying to be thought provoking , and trying to avoid the 'predator' type movie it could easily have become . 
if it is , then the director and writers have made the wrong move , because this is perfectly suited to be an all out action fest . 
the director , who bought us cronos , a far superior film , directs the film in a calm , and frankly dull movie . 
there are few exciting sequences , instead just a lot of people talking . 
if the dialogue was intelligent , then it would be all right , but it's sadly babbling nonsense . 
in fact , the script is embarrsingly weak , and the characterizations not much better . sorvino and company are as 2d as characters come , with the script not bothering to develop them . 
there is some action in this film , but it's directed in such an annoying way , it's just infuriating to watch . 
the camera cuts all over the place , disoreitating the audience , and instead of involving the audience in the action , it merely alienates them . 
the peformances are o . k , if slightly below average . 
sorvino is o . k , although she's not very good at conveying terror , or anything emotion really . 
the supporting cast are all sterotypes , with characters such as a big black security guard with a foul mouth , a geeky scientist with spectacles , and what could be the most stereotypical mexican 'old timer' ever . 
their reasonable good fun , however . 
mimic , then , may fail with it's story , pacing and characters , but the film does look good . 
like dark city , mimic is a definite case of style of content . 
it may be a bit too gloomy for it's own good , but the sets look nice , and parts of the film are directed well . 
but looks aren't good enough to save mimic from the depths of mediocre , somewhere where it shouldn't really belong . 
a good opportunity , then , wasted . 
a shame . 
overall rating= review by david wilcock ? 1998 
this movie tries to present itself as the sequel to jan de bont's debut as a director , 1994 surprise hit speed . 
but the only thing the two movies have in common is sandra bullock as the female lead . 
annie ( sandra bullock ) is in the wrong place at the wrong time again . 
she's going on a cruise with her new boy-friend alex ( jason patric ) , and of course it is her ship that is kidnapped by john geiger ( willem dafoe ) who has a bone to pick with the shipping line . 
they sacked him after he got sick . 
now he wants the diamonds stored in the ship's safe for compensation . 
that actually is the whole storyline . 
speed 2 could do without dialogues . 
the movie is all about images and remarkable sound . 
i don't really know why this is called an action movie . 
except for a few scenes that are vaguely reminiscent of speed this goes along the lines of the desaster movies of the 70ies . 
first we are introduced to a number of people who are going to be important later on in the movie . 
then desaster strikes . 
sandra bullock was said to have been glad that she could take action this time around . 
i looked for the " action " but couldn't find it . 
most of the time she is part of the decoration . 
the only time she is part of what happens is when she can have a shot at defusing a bomb and freeing some passengers trapped behind a fire door . 
now we know that she can handle a chain saw . 
we also know that fire doors on cruise ships can be cut apart in seconds . 
the bomb defusal of course goes wrong , but only the furniture is damaged , not our heroes who still are needed . 
jason patric alias alex spends most of his time flirting with annie , helping other passengers and frolicking in the water . 
his initial sea-sickness is suddenly gone , because there are ship , crew and passengers to be saved from evil geiger . 
he does a pretty good job but i can't blame keanu reeves for declining this part . 
then there's willem dafoe , the villain , who desperately tries to look as frightening as frankenstein's monster . 
he doesn't succeed , though . 
an untidy appearance isn't enough to convince the viewer of his psychopath potential . 
before he tries again to make us believe he is a dangerous man he should practise for a while in front of a mirror . 
i can't really recommend speed 2 . you will probably like the movie if you like funny situations that aren't meant to be funny . 
especially the showdown , when the ship first runs into an oil tanker and then dissembles a whole village is a treat . 
there you get to see the most superfluous scene in the movie . 
in keeping with last year's desaster movie tradition a dog is miraculously saved from certain death . 
a really funny ( and meant to be funny ) scene takes place on the oil tanker right before the collision . 
some crew members watch two ships colliding in an old movie . 
had they looked out the window they wouldn't have missed the huge ship racing toward them . 
those of you who still want to see the movie should pick a theater with a large screen and a good sound system to enjoy the visual effects and the phantastic surround sound effects . 
in an adequately equipped theater it's as if the explosion were going off all around you and you can feel the seats vibrate . 
but the ilm special effects can't save the movie . 
for all the money they could have done better . 
it's tough to be an aspiring superhero in champion city . 
just ask mr . furious ( ben stiller ) , the blue raja ( hank azaria ) , and the shoveler ( william h . macy ) . 
they're trying to break into the biz , but captain amazing ( greg kinnear ) , the city's hero numero uno , hogs all the action . 
the good captain has his own problems . 
because he's all but eliminated crime , amazing's endorsement deals are falling through . 
the public craves a major slugfest , so amazing engineers the parole of his one-time arch enemy casanova frankenstein ( geoffrey rush ) . 
frankenstein succeeds beyond expectations ; he captures capt . amazing before setting out on his scheme to destroy the city . 
so , no one is left to save the day but our would-be superheroes , but their abilities are more " little league " than " justice league . " 
the raja hurls forks at foes , the shoveler hits them with a shovel , and mr . furious just yells at people ( stiller is doing essentially the same character he played in a guest appearance on " friends " ) . 
after a painful first strike , the guys hold auditions for teammates and add the bowler ( janeane garofalo ) , who carries her dead father's skull in her bowling ball ; invisible boy ( kel mitchell ) , who can only use his powers when no one is looking at him ; the spleen ( paul reubens ) , who blows devastating winds from his rear ; and the sphinx ( wes studi ) , a mysterious figure who will teach them to fight . 
 " mystery men " boasts one of the most talented and eclectic casts ever assembled . 
in addition to those already mentioned , the credits include lena olin as frankenstein's evil shrink , comedian eddie izzard and the fugees' prakazrel michel as disco-themed thugs , singer tom waits as an inventor of superhero weapons , artie lange ( from " mad tv " ) as another thug , claire forlani ( from " meet joe black " ) as a waitress mr . furious is pursuing , louise lasser ( from " mary hartman , mary hartman " ) as the blue raja's mother , and actor/magician ricky jay as capt . amazing's manager . 
the cast includes four oscar-nominated actors ! 
when i saw the list of players early last year , i figured the result would be a can't-miss comedy . 
yet , i must report disappointment . 
the script is probably the worst of 1999 . 
nearly every joke misfires . 
the stabs at comic books are too obvious to be funny . 
 ( for example , no one can recognize capt . amazing in his secret identity because he's wearing glasses . ) 
the fart jokes surrounding the spleen are surprisingly the only gags that work . 
the cast tries hard , especially hank azaria , whose character adopts an effete british accent while in costume , but the script is just too lame to run . 
8mm , written by seven scribe andrew kevin walker , has an interesting idea which is ruined by hollywood formula to become a bog standard murder mystery . 
nicolas cage plays family man detective tom welles , who is asked by upper class toff mrs . christian ( myra carter ) to investigate an movie found in her recently deceased husbands safe . 
the movie happens to be an mythical 'snuff movie' , where the girl featured in the film appears to get brutally slashed . 
all mrs . christian wants to know if the girl in the film was killed or not . 
welles agrees , and soon gets pulled into the seedy underworld of porn movies , with video clerk max california ( phoenix ) as his guide . 
although the 'snuff' industry hasn't really been examined in mainstream cinema , 8mm still makes a rather plodding thriller which just seems to be a bit sicker than most . 
the snuff movie within the movie is certainly disturbing , although the jerky camera angles and grainy image takes some of the shock away . 
8mm has the problem of not wanting to shock too much , and apart from a few moments , most of the action in the film is nothing you haven't seen from another standard thriller . 
the cast help towards the entertainment , apart from an hideous performance by the increasingly lazy nicolas cage . 
while he was fun and breezy in earlier films such as raising arizona ( 1987 ) , ever since leaving las vegas ( 1995 ) , cage has lost much of his acting talent and appears to be on autopilot , such as in the terrible snake eyes ( 1998 . ) 
here , in 8mm , he's boring , uninteresting and has a dull monotonous voice . 
and in this overlong thriller , these virtues do not help keep the suspense up . 
only when cage is onscreen with the excellent phoenix does the film start moving , as phoenix is a true talent . 
his performance is a great break away from the gloom , and he's just purely enjoyable to watch . 
catherine keener is completely wasted as cage's wife , although she delivers a far better performance than her character deserves . 
her character , though , is hugely underwritten , one of the most wasted characters of the year . 
also fun is fargo's peter stormare as the wildly over the top snuff film director . 
as this film is written by the person behind seven , 8mm is filled with doom and gloom , and no-one appears to know how to use an light switch . 
unlike seven , 8mm isn't too clever , and the twist is pathetic and startlingly obvious when it arrives . 
lacking the strong characters seven featured , 8mm ultimately becomes uninvolving plot wise , and relies on the graphic scenes to provide any entertainment . 
but director joel schumacher , the completely wrong guy for the job , puts style over content , and while the direction and look are good , it's just not very disturbing . 
schumacher also has no idea how to shock and audience , and though we are meant to be looking at the 'dark belly' of the porn industry , it doesn't exactly leave an haunting impression on the viewers mind , which misses the point . 
also , the last 20 minutes are so hackneyed , so cliched , it's amazing to think it's the same film you're watching . 
8mm is far from an success , a 'snuffed' opportunity . 
with a boring lead character , 'controversial' scenes that manage not to be controversial , and a director obsessed with looks , what could have been one of the most shocking films of the year is a dumb thriller . 
ultimately , 8mm is probably worth renting on home video , unless your desperate to see what the snuff film within the film looks like . 
and trust me , the rest of the 2 hours are not worth it . 
your first clue that something isn't gonna be quite right with the movie you're about to see : it's heavily christmas-themed and its release date is , oh , say , at the end of february . 
your second clue that something isn't gonna be quite right with the movie you're about to see : charlize theron , one of the movie's dubious stars , makes an appearance on the daily show in which , when asked if her new movie's any good , she replies with the equivalent of a verbal sigh . . . 
assuring us that , yeah , it sure is a movie , all right ! 
and there's some scenes like those you'd expect to find in a movie , and there's some action . . . 
and there's other . . . 
stuff . . . 
too . 
how to immediately grab my attention : open your movie with five dead guys in santa claus suits . 
then show a caption reading " six days earlier . . . " 
ya know , i was honestly interested to find out what killed all those poor santas . . . 
how to immediately lose my attention : follow your opening scene with a terminally dull nice-guys-who-don't-deserve-to-be-in-prison scene . 
write a line for the one of prisoners like " i just want to go home and eat christmas dinner and watch some ball with my dad . " 
then , have ben affleck actually say that line , on film , and forget to leave it on the cutting room floor . 
for good measure , throw in a poorly motivated prison riot and have affleck's best buddy stabbed . . . 
aw . . . 
and just two days before his release , too . 
already the cliches are piled on thick , and when it rains , it pours . 
how to take my attention , dash it violently against the rocks , and make it so that i'm contemplating my strategy for calling " shotgun " about an hour before i know the credits will roll : deny your characters the ability to think . 
have ben affleck , for some reason i'll never understand , pretend he's his dead prison buddy so that he can get his girlfriend , played by charlize theron . 
have gary sinise show up and force the two of them to participate in a poorly planned casino heist . 
the villains' big idea ? 
kidnap affleck because he used to be a security guard at the casino , force him to tell you where all the doors in the place are , then dress up in santa suits , create some " diversions " and rob the place . 
on paper , it seems like the stuff of a potential caper comedy , but veteran director john frankenheimer wrongly picks up that piece of paper and thinks he's looking at the makings for some sort of clever action-crime thriller . 
it's not like the man isn't capable . . . 
far from it . 
he's the man responsible for classic political thrillers like the manchurian candidate and seven days in may . 
he wowed me with some the most memorable car chases i've ever seen in last year's ronin . 
but he's certainly guilty of churning out some certifiable losers . . . 
put reindeer games on the shelf of shame with his 1996 version of the island of dr . moreau . 
step one in making your movie as easily forgotten as possible : cast ben affleck in the role of the world's most generic hero . 
he gets no good one-liners , he doesn't get to shoot or implode anything in new and interesting ways , and all we know about him is that he regrets his past as a car thief and wants a cup of hot chocolate and piece of pecan pie . 
his name is rudy ( short for rudolph , in all likelihood . 
see , it's called reindeer games . 
get it ? 
get it ? 
shut up . ) 
in the past , affleck has been at his best as a supporting actor , and reindeer games does nothing to further his viability as a leading man . 
step two in making your movie as easily forgotten as possible : gary sinise's villain dresses and looks like the most standard movie crook a filmmaker could have some up with . 
he's dirty and potty-mouthed , he's got long , scruffy hair and a goatee , and i fully expected him to walk out of the casino carrying sacks with giant dollar signs on them . 
he's also extremely inept at what he does . 
he thinks garish cowboy costumes and santa suits make acceptable disguises , and he trusts affleck's character to pull through even after , time and time and time again , he tricks him and lies to him and nearly kills him . 
but instead of tapping into the comic possibilities of this role , sinise seems to think he's playing some sort of tough , smart , and smooth criminal mastermind , rather than the complete moron that was obviously written into the script . 
[on a side note , gary sinise wins this week's " title ! " 
award , as he's the one who gets to awkwardly cram the name of the movie into one of his lines early in the proceedings . 
last week's winner was natasha henstridge for the whole nine yards . ] 
how to take your bad idea and make things worse : include two or three plot twists that , instead of making the apparently stupidity of the plan seem suddenly intelligent , make the plan seem even more ridiculous and unlikely . 
this is a bad movie . 
and what's worse is that , except for a few moments near the not-so-stunning conclusion as the preposterous is replaced by the ludicrously preposterous , reindeer games never really gives us the satisfaction of being laughably bad . 
if they'd done that much , at least i would have been entertained . 
carry on at your convenience is all about the goings-on in the factory of a toilet manufacturer , wc boggs ( kenneth williams ) . 
once they have won an order to manufacture 1000 bidets in two months and charles coote ( charles hawtrey ) has designed a suitable model , the factory employees set to work but are interrupted by union representative vic spanner ( kenneth cope ) and friend bernie hulke ( bernard bresslaw ) who call them out on strikes on the slightest pretext . 
meanwhile , chief foreman sid plummer ( sid james ) is growing tired of his wife beattie ( hattie jacques ) and her budgie . 
he would much rather live next door with fellow boggs worker chloe moore ( joan sims ) but once he discovers that the budgie can predict the winners of horse races , he is over the moon and flush with money . 
his daughter , myrtle plummer ( jacki piper ) , is going out with wc's son lewis boggs ( richard o'callaghan ) and this causes conflict on the staff day out to the seaside when vic spanner vies for her attentions . 
in the end , if the strike does not cease , boggs will have to close down his factory , but the support of a group of women led by coote's wife-to-be and spanner's mother , agatha spanner ( renee houston ) , try to resolve the situation . 
also , sid realises that his budgie has caused him nothing but trouble since it started predicting horse race winners . 
there are some good performances , as usual , from sid james and kenneth williams in their standard roles . 
charles hawtrey is third billing but only appears in a few scenes . 
his part is mildly amusing . 
richard o'callaghan is appealing as bogg's stuck-up son , patsy rowlands is funny as miss withering , bogg's assistant , and renee houston is terrific in her small part as agatha . 
however , sole acting honours go to hattie jacques as beattie plummer . 
although her character is not directly involved with the main storyline , she manages to input a great deal of pathos and feeling into her character . 
a marvellous performance from a marvellous actress . 
the film suffers from annoying performances by bernard bresslaw and especially kenneth cope . 
in his carry on debut , cope overdoes his role as spanner making him so annoying as to be unfunny . 
joan sims returns as the love interest ( instead of barbara windsor ) . 
sims' 'usual' part as the downtrodden wife was taken by hattie jacques . 
additionally , bill maynard as fred moore is very poor . 
this carry on movie tries it best to entertain the viewer : - the locations and wealth of characters are appealing . 
however , the toilet humour becomes tiresome very quickly and some of the performances leave a lot to be desired . 
this movie does not know where it is going . 
it was made in 1971 and talbot rothwell the scriptwriter seems to be in two minds whether to go for 'bluer' jokes or to maintain the 'innocent' jokes success of most of its predecessors . 
that is why this film suffers . 
a minor carry on film whose major asset is the performance by hattie jacques . 
the new 'minor-regulars' such as o'callaghan and piper are not able to enliven the movie and the toilet humour becomes humourless after a while . 
the tagline for this film is : " some houses are just born bad " . 
so i didn't expect too much from this . 
but i had preserved a little spark of ope as i entered the theatre . 
i thought : liam neeson , cathrine zeta jones and jan de bont . 
i thought , mabe it will be fun ? 
and in fact the beginning was rather intriguing . 
but by the end of it i thought : why liam neeson and cathrine zeta jones , jan de bont ? . 
these great actors are basically helpless with this muddled mess that defies any rationality . 
here is the story : in the monstrously over-decorated mansion known as hill house , visitors are tricked by an unknown doctor ( liam neeson ) into being guinea pigs in a fright experiment under the guise of an insomnia investigation . 
among them is a sophisticated bisexual ( cathrine zeta jones ) , a cynical dope ( owen wilson ) and a gentle and emotional lady ( lily taylor ) . 
actually , the doctor is researching the " primordial fear reaction " and intends to plant disturbing ideas in his subjects and watch ! 
what happens . 
but he gets unexpected help from the house itself . 
it rumbles , hums and belches forth remarkable sights . 
portals become veiny stained-glass eyeballs . 
a fireplace guarded by stone lions gapes like a sinister mouth . 
filmy cherubic spirits take shape under sheets and billowy curtains . 
but the computerized spooketeria rarely feels real , placing an emotional wall between audience and screen . 
the second half of the film is basically about the main heroine running back and forth from the sinister lamps and evil furniture . 
is that exciting or what ? 
the worst thing about it is that it didn't have to be bad . 
it's based on a great book , ``the haunting of hill house , '' by shirley jackson . 
a 1963 adaptation of the book was scary and intelligent . 
it played with the greatest fears of our sub conscience . 
 " the blair witch project " , that cost less than an old car , managed to shock and terrify the audiences from their senses . 
and with a $70 mill . 
budget , de bont and screenwriter david self make hash out of a perfectly lovely piece of terror . 
de ! 
bont has a style of filmmaking so out of line with the material that it is , in itself , frightening . 
he is the master of the extravagant special effect and the big visual adrenaline rush . 
but why give him a more serious material ? 
in the end " haunting " will only haunt its fledgling studio ( dream works skg ) and de bont's career as a director . 
yet it wouldn't be fair to say that everything is bad . 
the effects are truly impressive and the house is wonderfully decorated -- beautiful , mysterious , magical and spooky . 
but this is where the good things end . 
the music is blaring , the floors moving , the ceiling morphing and the pictures on the walls screaming -- and all of this , every second , every moment of screen time , is absolutely without life . 
it's nothing more than a special effects-extravaganza ; visually impressive , but intellectually hollow thriller that simply doesn't engage . 
at first you do not know what's going on . 
is this part of the experiment ? 
are these hallucinations ? 
projections of the subconscience ? 
paranoia ? 
but in the end it shows out that this is actually happening . 
the house is actually possessed . 
it is at that point when all your hopes for a good entertainment disappears out of the window . 
for ever , i sat in anticipation for a decent climax and that's what i got ? 
i believe hichock once said that " it's ! 
better to wait for a climax , than to see one " . 
this may be true , and it might actually work , but there is only one problem -- jan de bont is not hichock and the things that he shows are not scary , only stupid . 
they are impossible to take seriously . 
any paralells that you might have heard before , linking this picture to kubrick's " the shining " , are absolutely baseless . 
 " shining " had class , style , story , acting , but most of all talent and originality . 
 " haunting " has only special effects and art direction to boast of . 
and those elements alone are not enough to make it a good film . 
casting good actors for small , pale parts only makes things worse . 
but i guess that no matter what i or other critics say or write , most of you will see this film anyway , even if the tagline would say : " some films are just born stupid " . 
the title is taken from the writings of ralph waldo emerson describing the life of a traveler as 'anywhere but here . ' 
there isn't one thing about this mother-daughter relationship melodrama that felt honest . 
it relies on a contrived minor character to tell both mother and daughter what was obvious to do in order to straighten out their dysfunctional lives , as for some reason they couldn't figure it out for themselves . 
if the film looks familiar , that is because " the slums of beverly hills ( 98 ) " went over the same ground but was fortunate to be more comical and perceptive due to alan arkin and natasha lyonne performances , in which they were fortunate to have a much sharper script to work with . 
alvin sargent's script was weak and annoyingly claustral . 
wayne wang's ( " the joy luck club " ) inept direction made a weak script even weaker by his inability to tell the story unfolding without the voiceover relating what the action couldn't convey . 
pushy mother adele august ( susan sarandon ) forces her 14-year-old daughter ann ( natalie portman ) to leave a small midwestern burg to go cross-country with her to beverly hills . 
the daughter resents her twice divorced , unstable but exotic , schoolteacher mother , bullying her to be an actress as a means of escaping a humdrum life . 
the daqughter doesn't even like the used gold mercedes mother buys to drive to lala land in and can't stand the beach boys records mom enjoys hearing on the car radio . 
so it becomes a question of who knows best , as the ladies fight it out between them , until the predictable sweet ending comes in this yawner . 
adele's dream of greener pastures in beverly hills soon doesn't look that good , as she lands a job in a slum school , has her precious car scratched by the unruly kids , and settles into a job she hates in order to financially survive . 
daughter pines for small town wisconsin and her friends there . 
during one of many arguments with her free-spirited mom , they go for ice cream and while mother is being ticketed , she runs away , only to be chased down by friendly traffic cop ( michael milhoan ) , who offers her wise counsel . 
with the cop's zen wisdom passed onto the daughter , she will survive living in many different addresses in beverly hills until she reaches 17 and then she plans to get way from mom by using her good grades to go to brown university instead of ucla . 
during their stay in beverly hills , she grows from feeling awkward in beverly hills high to immediately having many high school girlfriends and even a high school rich boy admirer-- a t . s . 
eliot ( corbin allred ) reader . 
but the transition of her life into beverly hills had no feel of reality , as everything seemed staged and unemotional . 
when she learns her cousin benny ( shawn hatosy ) , who happens to be her best friend dies in a traffic accident back in wisconsin , she returns for the funeral and in those reunion scenes it wasn't clearly shown why she wants to stay there , and for that matter , it was never made clear why the mother wants to leave so badly . 
the film is one big battle of wills between mother and daughter over their dreams . 
i guess what the filmmaker is trying to say , is that mom is a bad dreamer and the daughter is the observant one , able to recognize mother's faults when not in growing pains and in need of parenting herself . 
mother has a series of setbacks , like being dumped by her dream-boat dentist ( bochner ) she met on the beach , and witnessing her daughter mimic her whiny optimistic sayings when trying out for an acting part . 
but mother learns that her daughter has grown-up and is independent and that she has to stop living her life through her . 
she learns this when the same wise cop who told ann what to do , is about to ticket her and this time will remind the mother of the right thing to do . 
this of course results in the corny ending , showing that mom's heart was always in the right place , only she went about it in the wrong way . 
this was just one of those films where you want to be anywhere but in the theater where this film is showing . 
tomb raider . 
fun ? 
exciting ? 
challenging ? 
given the unprecedented popularity ( especially among teenage boys ) of the video game that sports an uber-buff , pistol packin' babe who raids , well . . . 
tombs , you have to believe it's these three things and more ! 
 " lara croft : tomb raider , " the big screen variant of said video game , which features a pumped-up angelina jolie ( the oscar ? winner for " girl , interrupted " no less ) in the title role is , however , none of these things . 
it isn't fun , it isn't exciting , and the only challenge is seeing how long you can stay in your seat ( i suffered through to the bitter , bitter end ; the wife opted for barnes & noble at the 45-minute mark ) . 
directed by simon west with the same subtlety he brought to " con air , " " tomb raider " is an empty-headed , big budget bore . 
the story borrows unintelligently from that mother of all turkeys " hudson hawk " ( the same hokum about planetary alignments and sacred stones that , when brought together , well . . . 
who the heck cares ? ) and it makes " super mario bros . " ( bob hoskins' ill-advised career move ) look like " rocco and his brothers " ( that classic of italian neo-realism ) . 
i'll go out on a limb here and say i suspect there's actually more character development in the video game than the movie proper . 
this is where the jolie defenders/video game nuts jump in and say this movie isn't about character development it's about kicking serious butt ( or bum , since ms . croft hails from england's green and pleasant ) . 
with lips , breasts , and biceps all inflated to the max , lara croft is all about posturing , and jolie has a hard time simply standing still without trying to look tough . 
ok , let's forget challenging . 
shouldn't " tomb raider " be , at the very least , fun and exciting ? 
shouldn't our butt-kicking heroine also encompass the sophistication of , say , james bond with the wit of indiana jones ? 
there's no humor to be found anywhere in " tomb raider , " even though it tries hard from time to time . 
even " the mummy returns " didn't take itself too seriously . 
the villain here is noticeably lacking , the special effects are ridiculously overblown and unnecessarily complicated , and the script is non-existent . 
to liven things up ( perhaps ) , jolie's live father jon voight puts in a few minutes as lara's dead father lord croft ; talk about a stretch . 
one thing i hadn't expected from the film is that jolie affects a slightly better english accent than her pa ( although i suspect that thin-looking moustache he's forced to wear gets in the way some ) . 
unsuccessful ? not entirely . 
if anything , " lara croft : tomb raider " makes you want to check out the video game itself to figure out exactly what all the fuss was about . 
walt disney studios may have finally met its match with the lush animation in twentieth century fox's anastasia . 
but judging by the latest efforts from the don bluth studios , the visuals are the only thing fox has to brag about . 
disney's recent classics have occasionally stretched credibility in such films as pocahontas , the hunchback of notre dame , and to a lesser extent , hercules . 
with anastasia , fox has gone so far as to throw all facts completely out the window . 
some may say - so what ? 
it's just a kid's movie . 
well . . . 
if you have young kids , beware , as they may be noticeably frightened by the visuals of a corpse-rotting rasputin zombie , whose body parts continually fall off in a disconcertingly real way . 
consider yourselves warned . 
nevertheless , the animation is quite stunning at times . 
don bluth has used computer animation extensively throughout , occasionally rivalling photographic quality . 
and yet in other scenes , the hand-drawn material seems of the saturday-morning tv crowd , which leads me to wonder . . . 
was this rushed to market to combat disney ? 
the plot , as anyone who had read history before knows , concerns the attempt to return anastasia to her royal family after she was lost in the overthrow of the romanovs in 1916 . 
not that anastasia is much concerned with what really happened . 
as for the plot --- go rent disney's candleshoe . 
you'll see 60% of anastasia there . 
here's something to chew on : what's the favorite food of big , cheesy-looking special effects monsters like the one lurking in the bowels of a luxury liner in deep rising ? 
the obvious answer to this question is cardboard , because that's the depth of the most fully- developed character in this painfully generic creature feature . 
deep rising demonstrates all the originality and vitality of something scripted by a computer . 
in fact , considering the rigid adherence to the expected formulas , perhaps it was . 
the most astonishing thing about deep rising is the exceptionally high level of gore . 
not since starship troopers have this many chunks of flesh ( both human and non-human ) been scattered in all directions . 
we learn some bloody trivia , as well , such as how a sea monster spraypaints in red ( it drinks a human being then spits out the liquefied remains ) and what it does with half-digested leftovers . 
i suppose deep rising's gallery of grotesque images represents fun stuff for those who love the macabre , but it doesn't do much for me . 
on the surface , and that's about the only level at which this film can be analyzed , deep rising feels like tremors grafted onto titanic ( everyone else is citing the equally valid aliens/titanic connection , since james cameron directed both ) . 
in going for the big disaster angle of titanic and the tongue-in-cheek mayhem of tremors , deep rising somehow misses both marks by a wide margin . 
the film is not humorous , tense , or exciting . 
in fact , it's downright boring , and , despite being half the length of cameron's current box-office champ , deep rising feels like the longer movie . 
is it really necessary to say anything about the plot ? 
probably not , since it's easy to guess , but i'll go ahead and oblige anyone who wants a synopsis . 
the film opens by introducing us to a gang of bad guys on board a mercenary ship . 
in addition to the usual cast of psychopaths and lunatics , there's finnegan ( treat williams ) , the boat's pilot , who's supposed to be an indiana jones knockoff ; joey ( kevin j . o'connor ) , the inept sidekick who's supposed to be lovable and funny ( but is really just irritating ) ; and hanover ( wes studi ) , the " mastermind " ( and i use that term lightly ) of the operation . 
their goal : attack a cruise ship , clean out the safe , then sink it using some illegally-acquired torpedoes . 
the problem is , by the time they reach the argonautica , the titanic-like luxury liner has turned into the marie celeste . 
aside from a beautiful jewel thief ( famke janssen ) and a couple of crew members , there's no one on board . 
the reason soon becomes obvious -- the ship has been taken over by a bad special effect that is supposed to resemble an octopus with teeth and more than eight tentacles . 
the cast , which is led by treat williams , is primarily comprised of has-beens and probably-never-will-bes ( two exceptions : wes studi , best known as the villain in the last of the mohicans , and djimon hounsou , amistad's cinque ) . 
williams , once a " can't miss " prospect in hollywood , has fallen so far out of favor that the best he can do these days for a lead role is a film like deep rising , and his inability to create a charismatic or interesting figure here may sink whatever is left of his sputtering career . 
famke janssen , who will forever be known as xenia onatopp from goldeneye , is the perfect bland match for williams . 
given her limited acting abilities , it's likely that she was chosen for this part primarily on the basis of her physical attributes . 
unfortunately , a bra defeats the purpose of having her in a wet tee-shirt for half of the picture . 
meanwhile , kevin j . o'connor , who has entirely too much screen time , exhibits all the appeal of fingernails scratching a blackboard . 
these days , audiences are becoming more difficult to impress with computer-generated special effects . 
this is a lesson that writer/director stephen sommers ( who previously helmed the live-action jungle book ) needs to learn . 
the days of jurassic park , when viewers were astounded by the mere spectacle of seeing something big and imposing on screen , are past . 
now , movie-goers are looking for the sophistication of titanic -- visuals that are so well-incorporated that it's impossible to tell where they end and where " reality " begins . 
in deep rising , the monster , like everything , is artificial and unconvincing . 
unfortunately , the fundamental problem audiences are faced with here isn't so much the idiotic monotony of this individual picture , but the poor quality of the entire bankrupt genre ( although , to be fair , deep rising is a particularly bad entry ) . 
even once this film has sunk out of sight , the knowledgeable viewer knows it won't be the last of its kind . 
like the slimy , slithering things that inhabit the air vents and pipes of these movies , more are waiting just around the corner in ambush . 
and that consideration , unlike anything on screen , is truly horrifying . 
this is an adaptation of h . g . wells' acclaimed novel 'the invisible man' . 
the actors are kevin beacon and elizabeth shue . 
the director is paul verhoven . 
that , plus a quick demonstration of the amazing special effects in the trailer , should be enough to lure us into the theatre . 
the problem is to keep us there . 
i can't imagine anyone who would like to see this movie a second time . 
working on a top secret military project , sebastian caine ( kevin beacon ) -- an eccentric genius , that calls himself " god " , has discovered the secret to invisibility . 
the first two faces are completed . 
now , it is time for " the next logical step " -- human . 
caine volunteers for this risky experiment . 
but when he is made invisible , something goes wrong . 
while his ex-girlfriend linda ( elisabeth shue ) desperately tries to find something to return him to normal , he learns that invisibility is more of a prison than a superpower . 
but that's not the bad thing -- an unexpected side-effect of the drug sends him careening into paranoid megalomania . 
he is naturally given a couple of modest superpowers , just enough for him to survive immolation from a flame thrower and an explosion of about a quart of nitroglycerine . 
soon every sense of decency is forgotten . 
the little intelligence that was left disappears as verhoven looses control and the film turns into an alien-rip-off , where caine is walking like a half finished terminator , spooking , scaring and killing everybody . 
though it's based on a novel called 'the invisible man' , the title has been ironically changed to 'hollow man' that sums up the film very nicely . 
this is a very silly production . 
laughable , actually . 
apparently verhoven's imagination doesn't stretch too far . 
for him the only worthwhile reason to become invisible is so you can case the girls' locker room undetected . 
it is this primitive schoolboy mentality that eventually kills the movie . 
being invisible , gives you the opportunity to be who you are , to do what you want without being influenced by society . 
in many ways it gives you an illusion of having a life without consequences . 
the nature of man and his place in society is what the novel is truly about . 
all that , the depth and true horror of the book is gone and only special effects make you remain in your seat . 
caine does use his power voyeuristically in hollow man . 
but since this is a modernization , in other words a dehumanization , he doesn't stop there . 
he becomes a rapist . 
and then , of course , a murderer . 
you'll start wondering why such actors as beacon and shue found themselves in such film in the first place . 
shue's talent is barely seen , josh brolin is underused and the rest of the cast suffer mostly for the lack of talent . 
kevin beacon is the only one that performs gracefully . 
his face is not seen for the most part of the film , and the only way he exists is as a disembodied voice . 
there are times when his presence actually saves the film from being completely embarrassing . 
in the end the effects are the only reason to see this film in the first place . 
being probably the best technical achievement since " jurassic park " , they are absolutely amazing . 
we observe the layers of skin , muscle , tissue , and bone being peeled away as a body is slowly rendered invisible . 
we see a beating heart , inflating lungs , and veins pulsing with newly-pumped blood . 
there are a couple of inventive shots with smoke , fire , air and water , but are a few scenes like that worth attending a movie for ? 
what is truly disturbing is that with a great book , talented actors and a grand budget , this could have been so much more . 
pretty much like jan de bont ( " twister " , " haunting " ) , paul verhoven has never made anything extraordinary . 
he was responsible for several good films ( " basic instinct " and " starship troopers ) " and some incredibly bad films ( " showgirls " , " total recall " ) , but he has never made anything that was great . 
in a way " hollow man " fits perfectly in this collection . 
it's not better or worse than verhoven's average film . 
he proves once again that he is incapable of handling more complex issues . 
and so , instead of depth and chills , verhoven inserts some of his trademarks : stupid dialogue , and lot's of dull action with blood and naked bodies . 
he even throws in some of the worst of film clich ? s - the slowly advancing fireball , the villain who comes back from the dead , etc , etc . - and tops the whole thing off with one of the most ridiculous endings of the year ( you'll be screaming " nooooo ! " 
and attempt to run towards the exit in slow motion ) . 
and all we can ask is why ? 
the answer is simple . 
though hollywood is a movie producing machine , the business of moviemaking has to be about something more than money . 
it has to be about telling stories , not marketing them . 
it has to be about transporting us to a different place , to dazzle us with magic and cleverness . 
to make us care , to make us think and feel . 
verhoven has obviously missed that point and this film is a proof of that . 
it's all flesh and bones , but no soul . 
a void where its imagination should be . 
eddie murphy has a lot riding on harlem nights . 
as the movie's writer , director , executive producer , and star , murphy will shoulder all of the blame if harlem nights fails . 
but at the same time , he'll receive all of the credit if it succeeds . 
should you sacrifice your hard-earned cash to support murphy's risky gamble ? 
well , that depends on whom you trust more : me or eddie murphy . 
here's what murphy thinks : " i think the audience is expecting a good time . 
they gonna get sexy . 
they gonna get funny . 
they gonna get drama . 
they gonna get all of that . 
i think it's the best movie i've done " ( paramount radio network ) . 
here's what i think : harlem nights is charmless , unoriginal , disappointing , and almost without question , the worst film of the actor's career ( i haven't seen best defense ) . 
and guess who's to blame ? ! 
the movie's problem is not murphy's direction : harlem nights is a fairly good looking film . 
no , the project was probably doomed even before the cameras rolled . 
murphy's awful script is the culprit . 
let's count the mistakes he makes in his first attempt at screenwriting : 
 ( 1 ) murphy shatters the record for the most profanity in a motion picture . 
yes , he even outdoes his own work in raw . 
practically every line of dialogue in harlem nights contains at least one four letter word . 
and after 15 minutes , it gets irritating . 
 ( 2 ) murphy wastes the talents of his fine cast . 
richard pryor , redd foxx , michael lerner , and della reese face the impossible task of carving out credible characters from a script riddled with stereotypes . 
each of them shines occasionally , but basically what we have are good performers stuck in a bad vehicle . 
 ( 3 ) the movie demeans women by depicting them solely as sexual objects and as pawns in power struggles between men . 
murphy has admitted in interviews that he is weary of women in his private life , which is really neither here nor there . 
but when murphy puts his bitter feelings on 3 , 000 movie screens across the country , it's another matter altogether . 
you're forced to swallow some pretty gruesome stuff . 
for instance , murphy punches della reese in the stomach . 
and he shoots jasmine guy in the head . 
this is a mean-spirited movie , folks ! 
lovely newcomer lela rochon gets off easy in her role as a common whore , but only because she doesn't have any scenes with murphy . 
thank god : he might have run her over with a bulldozer . 
 ( 4 ) murphy has written for himself perhaps his blandest role to date . 
the loveable eddie murphy charisma emerges only once or twice during the film . 
murphy would rather give his character a spiffy wardrobe than a spiffy personality . 
sometimes it seems as if murphy made harlem nights just so he could wear fancy suits and look debonair . 
 ( 5 ) the plot is a shameless rip-off of the sting . 
if you're going to make another sting movie , you've got to do something original . 
murphy's tale of warring nightclub owners in harlem ( circa 1938 ) fails to add anything new to the formula . 
 ( 6 ) to get laughs , murphy makes fun of stuttering . 
you know a comedy is digging deep when it resorts to ridiculing the handicapped . 
 ( 7 ) murphy's idea of drama is a scene in which his character apologizes for the first time in his life . 
for what ? 
for shooting reese's little toe off ! 
needless to say , murphy shows little , if any , promise or imagination as a screenwriter . 
in all fairness , however , a few rays of sunshine do manage to break through the gloomy cloud surrounding the movie . 
danny aiello is fun to watch as a dirty cop on the take . 
aiello stands out in the large , ensemble cast : he obviously relishes the opportunity to play such a nasty character ( a racist detective with mob ties ) . 
aiello's zesty performance gives harlem nights some much needed spice . 
another bright spot is arsenio hall , who has a hilarious , show-stopping cameo as a cry-baby gangster ; hall virtually steals the spotlight from murphy . 
in fact , hall's ten minutes on screen are the funniest ten minutes in the movie . 
unfortunately , his character is completely irrelevant to the plot ; murphy should have given hall a much bigger role . 
of course , i've already mentioned that i didn't care for murphy's character , but i have to admit that i did love his neckties . 
they are simply spectacular--almost worth the price of admission . 
because no one demanded it : david duchovny in a romantic comedy ! 
at last , both his romantic magnetism and his comedic brilliance are mined for all their resources ! 
the choice of duchovny may have something to do with the plot , which could be fodder for a valentine's day episode of " the x-files . " 
bob rueland ( david duchovny ) loses his wife elizabeth ( joely richardson ) in a car accident . 
at the same time , grace briggs ( minnie driver ) is in the hospital , waiting for a heart transplant . 
grace gets elizabeth's heart , and it leads her to bob . 
it's the romantic equivalent of all those horror films where someone gets a transplant from a serial killer and then is driven to slaughter people . 
four writers are credited with contributing to the story . 
that doesn't seem possible . 
despite being a solid two hours long , " return to me " adds little to the " boy meets girl / boy loses girl " formula and , as a result , is terribly tedious and slow-moving . 
duchovny and driver seem unable to generate any sparks , and i kept wishing for a fast-forward button to move their scenes along . 
since driver has managed to work well in romantic roles before , i blame duchovny . 
he's out of his element without the manufactured and static sexual tension of his tv series ( and i've always thought that the relationship between mulder and scully on " the x-files " comes off more sibling-like than hot-and-bothered ) . 
there's something about duchovny that makes me uneasy . 
regardless of the role he's playing , he comes off as a weirdo . 
the only redeeming quality of " return to me " is its hilarious supporting cast . 
the circle of friends and relatives around bob and grace is constantly playing matchmaker , and they generate the only laughs in the movie . 
carroll o'connor is grace's grandfather marty o'reilly . 
when bob comes into marty's restaurant after hours , marty immediately begins quizzing bob about his marital status . 
when marty discovers that bob is a widower , he invites bob to join his poker game and introduces him with the declaration , " this is bob ! 
his wife is dead ! " 
the poker buddies are just as desperate to find a mate for grace and greet bob enthusiastically when they hear the news . 
also funny : bonnie hunt as grace's best friend megan and james belushi as megan's husband joe . 
married with children , megan and joe provide a useful counterpoint by showing the mundane results of romance . 
although it's rare to see him in a movie that premieres in a theater , belushi delivers his lines with great comic skill . 
rounding out the impressive supporting cast are david alan grier as bob's best friend and robert loggia as marty's brother-in-law angelo . 
in only the lead actors lived up to the standards set by the rest of the cast . 
bottom line : if you are compelled to see this movie , watch it on video so you can fast-forward to scenes with carroll o'connor and james belushi . 
i'm not sure if silvio horta wrote urban legend before or after the success of scream , but i'm guessing after just because it seems he may not have had time to write a second draft . 
seriously , this idea--a psycho bumping off people in the style of urban legends--is a great one and i wish it could have been pulled off . 
the first sign of trouble comes with the painfully insipid dialogue . 
an example : " that [car crash] must've been awful . . . for 
everyone involved . " 
you can tell that the writer intended that something a little more airy was supposed to have been said , just no one figured out what . 
i know in slasher movies there isn't supposed to be a lot of great characterization and i myself don't mind cardboard cutouts , but please don't let the cutouts be so damn bland . 
one reason movies like scream , star wars and diva have become so treasured is because they feature charismatic actors playing interesting characters . 
aside from jared leto and joshua jackson ( who aren't on the screen long enough ) no one in urban legend makes the grade . 
alicia witt shows none of the acerbity or wit she displayed on cybill , rebecca gayheart actually looks unattractive ( not to mention as dumb as a post through 3/4 of the film ) and robert englund just cruises on auto pilot . 
good thing brad dourif is here , but wait . . . he's only in the movie for five minutes _and_ he's just redoing his good-natured stuttering character from one flew over the cuckoo's nest . 
which brings me to another aspect of urban legend : it's unoriginality . 
the film most blatantly ripped off is scream ( another reason that makes me think silvio horta wrote this after craven's and williamson's great success ) . 
urban legend tries to deconstruct modern-day folklore much the same way scream deconstructed slasher films , but it doesn't quite succeed . 
it's best stab at self-reflexivity is poking fun at " that girl in the noxzeema ad " ( ie , rebecca gayheart ) we also have another killer-taunting-his-victim-on-the-phone routine in urban legend and quick , what movie is this exchange of dialogue from : 
female protagonist : why ? 
villain : why ? 
why ? ! ? 
congratulations to those of you who answered scream and/or urban legend . 
like i said , this movie could've been great . 
if only silvio had worked or been allowed to work a little longer on the script . 
still , at least urban legend had some pretty cool death scenes and a somewhat realized whodunit angle which makes this slasher is waaaayyyyyy better than i know what you did last summer . 
drew barrymore is beginning to corner the market on playing the girl outside - the one who's the awkward klutz or the spunky do-it-yourselfer ; the one who just doesn't fit in with the others . 
she has perfected these characters in movies such as " the wedding singer " and , most notably , " ever after . " 
now she's back , starring in what could be called a modern-day cinderella fable - " never been kissed . " 
you know it's a fable because she plays a copy editor at a newspaper who has her own office as well as a secretary . 
trust me on this one , no copy editor has seen the inside of a private office since gutenberg ( and i don't mean steve ) invented the printing press . 
the premise is simple . 
barrymore's josie geller , at 25 the youngest copy editor ever to be hired by the chicago sun-times , is assigned to go undercover and return to high school to do an expose on what today's teens are feeling and doing . 
josie ( she says she was named after the '70s cartoon character ) was a geek in high school , so she jumps at the opportunity for a second chance . 
this time , she thinks , she will get it right and be accepted by the in-crowd . 
now , what kind of adult - with a good job and a successful career - would actually look forward to reliving the hell that was - and is - high school and adolescence . 
these are among the many problems that plague " never been kissed . " 
screenwriters abby kohn and marc silverstein cannot get a handle of josie . 
their script has her capriciously switching from confident adult to ditzy , blubbering woman-child at the least provocation . 
and the fact that an adult would put so much stock into trying to become tight with the vapid airheads who are supposedly south glen high school's most popular girls leads you to question her maturity and mental stability . 
ok , so " never been kissed " is not a sociological expose of today's high school scene . 
however , certain rules should apply to film , and one of those is consistency of character . 
among the movie's problems is the ill-conceived conceit that josie would seriously strive to climb the high school food chain and , in the process , lose focus on her assignment . 
any competent editor would have tossed her ass out the door quicker than you could say " get me rewrite . " 
to be fair , barrymore is very appealing , but she is given very little to work with . 
she tries valiantly to get a firm grip on her character , but the script continually undermines her . 
barrymore comes off best in the physical comedy aspects of the script in which she tries to walk , talk and act like a cool , hip high schooler . 
otherwise , she is left foundering on a cliched sea of teen-age stereotypes and situations . 
 " never been kissed " is entertaining and funny in fits and starts . 
it lacks consistency and a firm grasp on what it wants to accomplish . 
the movie's main bright spot is provided by leelee sobieski as aldys , the outsider who befriends new student josie . 
josie sees a lot of her former self in aldys , yet still abandons her to hang out with the popular girls . 
real mature . 
and that is the main deficiency with " never been kissed . " 
it's illogical , unrealistic , uneven and undemanding . 
it has some warm and humorous spots , but not enough to overcome its many obstacles . 
 " come on , silent bob ! 
we're going to hollywood . " 
starring jason mewes , kevin smith , will ferrell , shannon elizabeth , seann william scott , chris rock , jason lee , ben affleck . 
directed by kevin smith . 
rated r . 
jay and silent bob strike back is a dumb movie disguised in a smarmy interior . 
kevin smith , coming off the wonderful , challenging dogma , fills it with sub-road trip gross-out jokes and expects us to buy it because he's just oh-so-ironic . 
but when a movie is so self-aware it becomes about nothing but itself , we can hardly be expected to pay for admission . 
jay and silent bob , two new jersey stoners who hang out at the doorstep of convenience store selling pot , have appeared in almost all of smith's movies but , if i'm not mistaken , have not starred in one until now . 
they find out that there is a movie based on the comic book that is based on them being made in hollywood . 
this presents two problems : a ) they haven't received a penny in royalties and b ) nerds on the internet ( " what's the internet ? " ) 
are talking trash about them . 
what is there to do except go to hollywood and stop this movie from being made ? 
on the way -- they're hitchhiking , because who knew you needed tickets to take a bus ? 
-- they run into a group of hotties who pretend to be with an animal-rights group , but are really jewel thiefs who parade around in charlie's angels-style outfits . 
of course , they set jay and silent bob up to look like the thieves , so that there is a massive manhunt going on during the second half of the film . 
will ferrell , who again proves himself incapable of doing anything but sketch comedy , shows up as the wildlife marshal inspector who thinks the two have stolen a monkey . 
the movie will probably please only smith's die-hard , undiscerning fans ; everyone else will be critical of this mind-bogglingly stupid effort following some the sophisticated cinema that he churned out in years past . 
any appeal the movie has will come from the " in " jokes , most of which i think i understood , but the movie is " in " to the point of absurdity . 
there needs to be something holding it together other than its own smugness . 
once jay and silent bob get to hollywood , the movie abruptly switches gears from gross-out comedy to ridiculously broad hollywood satire . 
countless " hot " movie stars and personalities make an appearance , from smith veterans matt damon and ben affleck to wes craven , but jay and silent bob strike back resorts to such low-brow gags as another scream sequel with a monkey as the killer . 
get it ? 
they're so desperate for another movie , they ran out of ideas and used a monkey ! 
a monkey ! 
as often happens with writers who are working below what they are actually capable of , most of the really good lines are throwaways , while the big , painstaking gags mostly fall flat . 
one of the funniest lines in the movie flies by : when asked to comment on the clitoris ( don't ask ) , jay responds : " the female clitoris ? " 
kevin smith is a talented writer ( though i agree that his films would be better off if he'd let a real director take the helm ) , and jay and silent bob strike back holds true to his promise to make a more facetious film . 
unfortunately , it's also shapeless , pointless and largely unfunny . 
smith's " verbal trampoline , " as ben affleck once called his distinctive dialogue , takes a back seat to his dubious instincts as a populist filmmaker . 
this was supposed to be the movie that didn't offend anyone , but it's offensive because it's terrible . 
let me begin by saying that this is easily the worst movie in the entire official ( and even unofficial ) james bond series . 
it is so full of self-parody and silly characters that you would almost believe you were watching a spoof . 
an omen of what is to come is provided by the pre-credits sequence , a dull affair featuring a confrontation between a man ( it's difficult to give a better description since no mention of him is made elsewhere in the movie ) and the assassin of the title . 
a song with woefully terrible lyrics follows , and the rest of the movie is even worse . 
the plot might have been a pleasant change from the usual rule-the-world so often found in the james bond movies of the 70s , but here we get a confused mismash about a fabled assassin , francisco scaramanga ( christopher lee , putting in a performance which is one of the rare saving graces of this movie ) who someone has apparently payed one million dollars to in order to remove roger moore's 007 . 
there is also a flimsy connection with the energy crisis and a missing solar cell with 95% efficiency . 
it's as much of a mess as it sounds . 
bond is " helped " in his task by mary goodnight ( ekland ) , whose character couldn't possibly be any closer to the stereotypical bimbo . 
during the course of the movie she gets locked in both a closet and a car trunk , blunders around a control room accidentally setting off a laser and serves no purpose in enhancing the plot whatsoever . 
maud adams ( later to star in octopussy ) is a much more stronger and useful character , but she hardly features in the movie . 
scaramanga's lackey is a dwarf called nik-nak , who rather fittingly is also possibly the silliest henchman in the series , serving up annoyance and weak dialogue in equal measures . 
worse still is an almost total lack of action throughout the whole movie . 
there is but one fight sequence about fifteen minutes in ( not counting a ludicrous scene where two teenage girls beat up several dozen trained martial artists -- another misguided attempt at humour ) . 
the solitary car chase might have been a highlight , but the " action " is interrupted on a frequent basis by a redneck sheriff ( j . w . 
pepper , played by clifton james of live and let die " fame " ) yelling stupid comments out of the passenger window . 
he is easily the most irritating character in a james bond movie . 
even his presence could have been made bearable by one of the most impressive car stunts in cinematic history , a 360 degree twisting loop jump over a broken bridge -- could have been , except somebody got the idea to dub a mocking whistle tone over the final print . 
on top of that debacle , the whole end of the film is an anticlimatic sequence in scaramanga's " funhouse " . 
the only good thing that came out of this movie was that the producers had to make the next film in the series ( the infinitely superior " the spy who loved me " ) a great film in order for the bond franchise to survive . 
since director steven zaillian previously wrote the powerful screenplay for 1993's steven spielberg drama " schindler's list " and directed 1993's intelligent " searching for bobby fischer , " his new film , " a civil action , " should most likely be looked upon as an unfortunate misstep in an otherwise prosperous career . 
what doesn't make sense is how such high-profile and superb actors as john travolta , robert duvall , william h . macy , and kathleen quinlan got involved in this project , which is both dull and completely ineffective . 
the film , which involves a small community of children who mysteriously died of leukemia , certainly contains the type of story to be emotionally-charged , but somehow all signs of feeling have been completely removed from the proceedings , leaving us with nothing more than a poorly-done courtroom drama . 
based on a book by jonathan hart , which was consequently based on a true account , " a civil action " is set in 1982 in the town of woburn , mass . , where personal injury lawyer jan schlictmann ( john travolta ) decides to take on the case of eight families who simply want an apology for their children's death from leukemia due to unknown causes . 
jan originally decides to drop the case , but when he stumbles across to corporate giants , grace and beatrice foods , who have plants located near the families' homes , he sees all of the pieces suddenly fall into place : the two companies have been leaking harmful chemicals into the nearby lake which , thus , goes into the city's drinking water . 
suddenly , after hearing about the families' heartbreak and personal stories , he begins to care for them and becomes determined to get to the bottom of the mystery , even though he is warned by his staff accountant ( william h . macy ) that no money is coming in to them , only going out . 
also figuring into the story is jerome facher ( robert duvall ) , beatrice foods' corporate counsel , who finds himself in heated waters when jan will not accept his $20-million offer to settle the case . 
coming from such a talented writer , director , and cast , not to mention one of the most interesting film composers , danny elfman , " a civil action " is an astoundingly empty-headed drama , one that includes an intriguing story and somehow transforms it into an admittedly tiresome and occasionally even boring experience . 
perhaps one of its major problems was that in its attempts to be a relatively uncommercial motion picture , zaillian has misplaced its refreshing unconventional attitude with an absence of magnetism and even meaning . 
watching the film , i couldn't help but notice its similarities with 1997's far , far superior film " the sweet hereafter , " which dealt with a lawyer , played brilliantly by ian holm , investigating a school bus accident that killed a number of children . 
in his attempts to find someone who may have been responsible for the accident , holm interviews the grieving parents , as well as the sole surviving passenger , a teenage girl , which starts to remind him of his own teenage daughter , a young drug-addict who has run away from home . 
not only was the plotting similar to " a civil action , " but it also had the same exact running time of 115 minutes . 
considering this , it is amazing how fulfilling and truthful " a sweet hereafter " was , not only concentrating on the school bus accident , but delving deeply into ian holm's character and his own personal demons , as well as the teenage girl . 
in " a civil action , " however , i have no idea where the running time went , since the film is virtually two hours of nothingness . 
we do not get to know the parents very well , nor any of the main characters . 
through its whole duration , i did not learn one thing__not one thing__about travolta's lawyer character , jan schlictmann , who doesn't appear to have any sort of life or purpose outside of his job . 
every scene is tediously related directly to the premise , and therefore , there was no one for me to care about or root for . 
you've got to work pretty hard , actually , to not get an audience to become involved in the parents' plight , since their children are dead , but that is exactly what " a civil action " does . 
to be honest , i would be fairly hard-pressed to state an aspect of the film that i actually liked . 
aside from one flashback to when a man's young son died on the way to the doctor , i remained unmoved and passive about what was going on in the scenes , and more than once found my mind wandering . 
i could say the performances were good , but who's fooling who ? 
since every character is one-dimensionally written , no one's acting abilities are challenged in any way . 
travolta plays a lawyer well enough , but that's about all he does . 
duvall virtually sleepwalks through his role , apparently only appearing to give one-liners at every chance he gets . 
and what in the world is kathy bates doing in the picture's final scene , as a judge ? 
she appears unbilled , since it is just a cameo , but why did she even agree to do it in the first place ? 
finally , when the conclusion arrived and the end credits began to role , the film left me with another question : what was the point ? 
abruptly ending without any susceptible momentum , where none came before that to begin with , " a civil action " seemed to me , at least , to be an example of how not to make a courtroom drama , and it certainly did not do justice to the very serious subject matter the film deals with . 
synopsis : al simmons , top-notch assasin with a guilty conscience , dies in a fiery explosion and goes to hell . 
making a pact with malebolgia , a chief demon there , simmons returns to earth 5 years later reborn as spawn , a general in hell's army donning a necroplasmic costume replete with knives , chains , and a morphing cape . 
sullen , wise cogliostro and flatulating , wisecracking violator vy for spawn's attention . 
comments : when todd mcfarlane left marvel comics ( where he had made a name for himself as a first-rate comic book penciller on the " spider-man " titles ) to join the newly-formed , creator-owned image comics , a new comic book legend was born : spawn . 
mcfarlane's " spawn " immediately became a commercial and critical success and a defining comic book series of the 1990s . 
mcfarlane created a hero who was not only original but visually intricate , allowing mcfarlane to utilize his knack for artistic detail to the max . 
the early " spawn " issues brilliantly capture mcfarlane's genius at illustration and show his early attempts at writing . 
with the popularity of " spawn " and the success of the current warner bros . 's batman film franchise , a movie version of some sort seemed inevitable for spawn . 
in the summer of 1997 , hence , new line cinema released spawn , a live-action film based on the groundbreaking series . 
this topheavy exercise in violence and special effects unfortunately topples quickly and leaves fans of the comic book , like me , numbed by how much spawn misses the mark . 
what happened ? 
why is spawn so bad ? 
todd mcfarlane himself executive produced this disappointing misfire and even appears in a cameo . 
i don't think , however , that his presence necessarily hurt ( or helped ) the film . 
i place the blame , in part , on the recent hollywood trend , fueled by public demand apparently , for special effects blow-out movies utilizing the latest computer technology . 
these films focus upon the effects at the expense of everything else : character , plot , dialogue , etc . spawn , reflecting this trend , shows the audience one gratuitous scene after another populated with morphing characters and filled with unnecessary pyrotechnics . 
hardly a minute goes by in this film without fires , explosions , knives and chains appearing out of nowhere , glowing eyes , or constantly transforming demons . 
a lot of it is visually interesting and technically solid , don't get me wrong , but , because the script and cast aren't engaging , spawn ultimately comes across like overwrought wallpaper ( the surface may capture the eye , but nothing exists underneath ) . 
spawn's translation of the comic book suffers the most at the storyline level . 
mcfarlane's spawn was a tortured hero . 
a mercenary by trade , al simmons was nonetheless a warm man in love with the beautiful wanda . 
having died and journeyed to hell , he made a pact to return to earth to be with wanda . 
simmons , however , discovers that his memories are fragmented , his body a creepy mess , and his wife married . 
despite his sometimes violent nature , readers couldn't help but feel sympathetic toward his plight as the spawn of the underworld . 
spawn attempts to show all of this but does not spend nearly the time it should to do so . 
when the characters are developed , they seem absurd rather than touching . 
the cartoonish dialogue and implausible subplot ( a general possesses the antidote to a supervirus called heat-16 which he wishes to unleash to enslave the world ) do not help matters . 
spawn , in an apparent attempt to duplicate the success of batman , also unwisely spends too much time on a villain , the violator ( batman favored the joker over batman ) . 
john leguizamo , like jack nicholson in batman , receives top billing in the cast as the violator ; michael jai white ( al simmons / spawn ) is second . 
i ordinarily find leguizamo an intensely annoying presence in films which seems to make him a perfect candidate for the violator . 
the film , however , spends so much time on the violator's offensive antics that they grate on the nerves . 
apparently meant to be the comic relief in the film ( as nicholson was in batman ) , especially when contrasted with the sullen spawn , the violator's lines are oftentimes grotesque and unfunny , leaving the audience wishing he would leave . 
leguizamo does a satisfactory job in the role , but he is seen far too often in the film . 
michael jai white , a relative newcomer to theatrical releases , seems to be an appealing actor , and he handles his role adequately , but we see little of him without various masks on . 
more time needed to be spent on white's character before he became spawn for the movie to pull at the heartstrings . 
a special note should be made about martin sheen as the over-the-top , obnoxious , evil general wynn . 
easily the hammiest performance in the movie , it's hard to imagine how sheen mucked up his role so much ; after all , he played a vietnam assasin brilliantly in the great apocalypse now . 
sheen's excessive demeanor do not help the audience accept him as a mastermind villain and comes as a surprise considering his extensive career in film . 
many other elements conspire with the disappointing script and abundant special effects to drag spawn down . 
mtv-style , jerky , in-your-face editing is one of them . 
flames , for example , roll across the screen sometimes to announce a shift in setting . 
cogliostro , unlikely wannabe guide for spawn , serves as a poor narrator for the film . 
he goofily tells the audience , at one point , that " how much of [spawn's] humanity is left remains to be seen , " as if the audience really cares as one violent sequence leads to another . 
the music , finally , assaults the audience as much as the manic violence and offensive dialogue . 
loud and obnoxious hard rock fused with drum loops dominate some scenes . 
to be fair , however , marilyn manson's " long hard road out of hell " effectively compliments spawn's return to earth , while filter and the crystal method's " ( can't you ) trip like i do " proves a surprisingly fitting theme song . 
for as good a comic book as it is , " spawn " did not spawn a good movie . 
spawn , instead , suffers from too much pomp and circumstance , and too little plot and character development . 
it receives two stars for its technically well-done special effects . 
many other films , though , have equal , if not superior , special effects and are much better . 
rated pg-13 , spawn seems more violent than many r-rated movies and probably wouldn't be appropriate for the very young . 
i can't recall a previous film experience where the fairly good time i was having turned as sour as quickly as it did during feeling minnesota . 
for forty minutes or so , i was lured into a loopy if occasionally over-wrought romantic comedy , and i was even giving keanu reeves the benefit of the doubt . 
then , rather suddenly , i was clubbed over the head with a nasty bit of violence ; shortly thereafter , i was whacked in the gut by another . 
feeling minnesota is a film that made me feel violated , as though i had trusted writer-director steven baigelman to bring me a cool glass of water and instead he threw acid in my face . 
feeling minnesota tells the story of a topless dancer named freddie ( cameron diaz ) who finds herself in deep trouble when her boss red ( delroy lindo ) suspects her of stealing from him . 
red's punishment is to force freddie to marry his bookkeeper , sam clayton ( vincent d'onofrio ) , who is far from the man of freddie's dreams . 
enter jjaks ( keanu reeves ) , sam's estranged younger brother , who arrives at the wedding just in time to catch freddie's eye and have sex with her in the bathroom . 
united in their mutual attraction and their mutual loathing of sam , jjaks and freddie take off together , but sam isn't ready to let them go without a fight . 
freddie , meanwhile , isn't ready to let sam's money go without a fight , and thus begins a series of violent confrontations . 
there is both style and substance to the beginning of feeling minnesota , as baigelman opens with an effective montage showing jjaks and sam's intense sibling rivalry as boys , and their mother ( tuesday weld ) sending jjaks away to live with his father . 
it does a great job of setting up jjaks' unstable life , a life which has landed him in trouble for petty crimes and always trying to please his family ; reeves' wounded look is just right for jjaks . 
the wedding sequence includes a number of nice moments , most notably the aforementioned bathroom scene in which a simple question is given a very funny spin . 
most important , baigelman begins to establish the connection between freddie and jjaks with humor and economy , as in a scene where they both spontaneously begin singing along to the replacements' " i will dare " on the car radio . 
you would have every reason to expect that relationships -- both familial and romantic -- would be the focal point of feeling minnesota . 
unfortunately , you would be dead wrong . 
i suppose i should have expected daisies and valentines after an early scene in which red threatens freddie as she tries to avoid the wedding , but i certainly didn't expect what i got . 
what i got was yet another in a long line of recent films trying to ride the tarantino wave by mixing gags and brutality , or rather creating gags about brutality . 
suddenly , the story of romantic entanglements and family conflict becomes a story about a corpse , and everything which had come before degenerates so completely that virtually nothing is recognizable . 
the sibling rivalry not only becomes little more than an excuse for one round of beatings after another , but there is no consistency to the characterizations . 
vincent d'onofrio turns in a manic performance as sam , whose jealousy , competitiveness and apparent sense of inferiority seem far more in keeping with what we know about jjaks , while reeves turns into a framed hero too reminiscent of chain reaction , and both of them spend most of the second half of the film screaming and covered in blood . 
there are films which have managed to employ a radical shift in tone successfully ( jonathan demme's something wild and neil jordan's the crying game come to mind ) , but they didn't try to draw an audience with the promise of relatively innocuous entertainment . 
i don't want to dismiss baigelman's successes out of hand -- he gets a fun performance out of dan aykroyd as a crooked cop , and some well-crafted comic moments -- and it is not his fault that fine line has chosen to promote feeling minnesota as a light-hearted caper . 
it _is_ his fault that he violates his own characters for the sake of shock value , and that he can't make his two halves into a whole . 
feeling minnesota left me feeling used , and there's not much funny about that . 
wolfgang petersen's latest , the perfect storm , is like a pineapple . 
it only tastes good after arduous peeling and digging - if you try to eat the fruit , spikes and all , it's going to hurt ? quite a bit . 
ok , maybe that was a confusing analogy , so here's my main complaint about the latest man battles nature flick : there isn't really much of a story to tell . 
basically , a massachusetts fishing crew goes out to sea on a small boat , called the andrea gail , and gets stuck in the middle of " the storm of the century . " 
how much time does it take for petersen to tell this story ? 
not nearly enough . 
so he spends the majority of the film developing pointless side stories which all eventually become superfluous . 
audiences want to see the storm , they want to see a fight for survival but what they get is a lot of cliched , maudlin drivel . 
the last quarter of the perfect storm is utterly perfect in every aspect , but just try lasting the first three-quarters . 
i have yet to read sebastian junger's the perfect storm , but from what i have heard it is an unforgettable tale . 
based on a true story , the book must have found some other way to introduce the characters because in the movie version , the approach is weak . 
using a wonderfully patriotic score by james horner , petersen almost hides the in-your-face banality . 
right away the central characters are introduced : the gritty , determined captain ( george clooney ) , the ingenue ( mark wahlberg ) torn between his job and his girlfriend ( diane lane ) , the loving father ( john c . reilly ) , the comic relief who's always trying to get laid ( john hawkes ) , the new guy ( william fichtner ) who immediately antagonizes a crewmate and the quiet , french guy ( allen payne ) . 
so many problems strike the opening segment of the film that the remaining portions directly suffer . 
it is not the all-star cast's fault , just the characters designed for their portrayal . 
allen payne's character never speaks in the entire movie , not because he is mute , but because he's never given any lines ! 
are we supposed to root for a guy whose face and voice we are never given a chance to interact with ? 
fichtner's character is terribly underdeveloped - we don't know what he's doing there , where he's from , or who he's supposed to be . 
the remaining four fishermen are all cardboard stereotypes ( hawkes says to a female stranger in one scene " you know what would look good on you ? 
me ! " 
ooooh real creative ) . 
as the script advances and the andrea gail floats farther out into the waters , the crew continues to not feel human . 
only when the storm takes center stage does the movie jump out of its sleepwalk . 
the computer-generated images of gigantic waves crashing against a helpless boat are thunderously real . 
i can only imagine if this was an imax film , this city kid would surely never go in the water again . 
this is loud , jolting entertainment - adjectives that completely negate the rest of the film . 
the perfect storm was unfortunately a disappointment . 
the maelstrom lived up to its potential but everything else failed to do so . 
i guess i'll stick to that other survival spectacle ? you know the one on cbs ? 
synopsis : valerie , a high school junior who doesn't look a day under 22 , writes bad poetry , complains about how much she hates school , fantasizes about a young guy on trial for raping and murdering six women , chooses him as a pen pal , and plays hooky to see him in court . 
after a jailbreak , the killer puts on big sunglasses , wears a half-buttoned jacket , and uses his fatal charm to go after valerie . 
comments : " alan smithee " directed fatal charm , which should have been more appropriately titled " fatal bore " or " fatal crap " . 
if you find out that a film you're about to see is directed by " alan smithee , " then you should seriously , seriously , seriously consider watching something , anything , else . 
 " alan smithee " is a pseudonym which a number of directors have used when they produce something really bad . 
frankly , i'd be embarrassed if i had directed this turkey , so i think i understand why the director might have picked the " alan smithee " moniker for this film . 
where to begin with this painfully poor thriller ? 
let's start with the acting . 
it's pretty bad . 
amanda peterson plays valerie and shows at least some talent ( the rest of the cast don't ) , even though her performance isn't exactly stellar material . 
she's also miscast ; she seems way too old to still have a year of high school to complete . 
her scenes with valerie's mother , played by mary frann , are a joke . 
the two look as though they're a couple of coworkers going out to lunch together , rather than a daughter with her mother who just doesn't understand . 
christopher atkins , a handsome enough actor who plays the killer , adam , looks like a clown in the second half of fatal charm . 
trying to appear malicious and dangerous , he wears large sunglasses and a half-buttoned jacket . 
if disney decided to do a zany comedy caper about the unabomber , atkins would probably be a perfect candidate for the lead , but he doesn't cut it here . 
early on in the movie , a number of scenes occurs in a courtroom . 
outside of the laughably poor performances given by the actors portraying lawyers , the people sitting in the benches provide the silliest effort at drama in the film . 
they constantly shift and turn and arc their heads in mock interest in what has got to be one of the worst perfomances that a large group of people have given at one time ever . 
fatal charm's storyline , such as it is , inspires more yawns than thrills . 
the script belabors a red herring , early on , about a second suspect who may have committed the murders for which adam ( atkins ) is charged with . 
this suspect , however , turns up strangled and drowned halfway through the film : an obvious plot fault . 
even for the idiots who didn't consider the movie's title as valerie and a blond newsreporter commented how innocent and charming the defendant seemed , it becomes quite obvious that adam is dangerous when the other suspect washes up . 
so , the audience must wait ( if they haven't already stopped watching ) as the necessary details fall into place and the killer goes after the heroine in the drawn-out finale . 
the video box for this dud describes fatal charm as an " erotic thriller " . 
a thriller it isn't , and neither is it particularly erotic . 
i can't imagine , if someone were in the mood for something " erotic , " that he'd be happy after watching this fluff . 
a few erotic moments occur in the film ; they take place in a van with little lighting and are filmed out of focus ( see , they're supposed to be valerie's fantasies -- how creative ) . 
on a personal note , i was disturbed by the ludicrous english literature class shown in this film which valerie had to suffer through . 
it's no wonder why she hated high school so much . 
as an instructor of english myself , i have a hard time accepting the fact that in a course emphasizing great literature , a teacher would stoop to reading a student's bad poetry ( of course , it's valerie's ) about boyfriends out loud and then embarassing its author in front of class with questions about the poem's inspiration . 
i guess the public school system is still setting dubious standards for its students . 
fatal charm won't charm anyone , unless there's someone that's charmed by boring , lifeless , insipid , suspenseless thrillers . 
if you happen upon this turkey , just keep moving on . 
a highly intelligent life form that is completely electronic in nature , beams itself onto a russian science vessel . 
well , this is the point where the movie strays from becoming a decent and original movie and simply becomes a predictable sci-fi thriller . 
anyhow , this life form takes control of the computers on the russian vessel then starts creating highly advanced robots to help it in its gruesome task of exterminating the ? virus' known as man . 
the original crew of the russian vessel is all but exterminated , and then a hapless crew on a tug discovers the derelict ship and tries to salvage it . 
no more needs to be said as to what happens and where the conflict lies , the movie is that predictable . 
the story is full of very shallow characters that don't do much other than subsist . 
the captain of the tug , played by donald sutherland , makes irrational choice after irrational choice leaving the audience wondering as to how he has survived long enough to reach his age ( looks to be in his 60's ) . 
to add to this we're shown this motley crew that at times seems to be highly skilled in specific fields , and at others seems barely capable of basic tasks . 
some of the supposed capabilities of the characters leads one to wonder what they are doing on a tug transporting cargo in the middle of the pacific , in a typhoon no less . 
none of the characters seem to work together at all ; they are always bickering and vying for some form of control . 
this makes no sense what so ever and only takes away from the story , a story that is full of holes and is extremely predictable . 
all the flaws of the actual story are only helped along by the special effects . 
the waves that are generated to be part of the typhoon make it look like boat was is small model sitting in a tub and someone is simply creating waves . 
it looks genuinely fake , granted trying to recreate a typhoon or hurricane cannot be easy by any stretch of the imagination but having the storm approach in a style similar to the huge wave of deep impact only ends up looking corny and amateurish . 
also on the topic of flaws , the robotics that the advanced life form creates seem to move extremely slowly , why ? 
if this life form that is so advanced as to be able to create these robotics , should it not be able to create them move faster ? 
regardless , the special effects in this movie in many cases take away from the film rather than add to it . 
as to the actual casting for the movie , finally there is nothing to complain about . 
the actors were superb , but then again it is highly doubtful that chimpanzees would have had difficulty acting the roles . 
having the cast that was present probably saved this movie from being an absolute catastrophe . 
watching these actors act this story out made it bearable , if barely . 
the one saving grace of this movie is that it was highly action packed and there always seemed to be something happening . 
so if you are going into this movie not expecting to see anything grand and are only going to kill some time and watch a mediocre sci-fi thriller then you won't be too disappointed . 
as the movie is but the latest in a genre that was originally created by aliens , it does little more than try to cash in on that aspect . 
this movie would be best left for video and even then you might be advised to simply wait for one of the major networks to air it on tv . 
this movie is based off the wildly popular video-game series of the same name . 
before this film , the game had a few spin-off cartoons- which were ok . 
but the idea of doing a movie is insane . 
it should have been animated , if it should have been done at all . 
instead the people do the best they can with a talented cast . 
yet it still fails . 
the plot is completely different from the game's plot- i'm not complaining about that . 
the story involves the mario bros . having a plumbing business in brooklyn and having to compete with a rival company . 
eventually they find a construction site by their nemesis , which happens to be enviromentally un-safe . 
so , due to luigi's ( john leguizamo ) girlfriend - princess daisy - they go and investigate . 
they get transported to a blade runner-esque world lead by king koopa ( dennis hopper ) . 
somehow a plot dealing with all the dinosaurs being mutated and transported to an alternate futuristic mega-city jumbles in . 
the plot is fine- better than the movie deserves . 
the acting is ok . 
this seems to be more of a visual film . 
the special effects are good , especially on the robotic yoshi . 
however the film drags and is no fun . 
and it leaves itself open to a sequel , which probably won't ever be made . 
this movie begins sort of promising , but ends up leaving a weird taste in your mouth . 
so if you want to watch a sort of odd movie starring the excellent dennis hopper , then watch super mario bros . : 
the movie . 
you could do worse . 
but you could definitely do better . . . 
 . 
street fighter : the movie ( 1995 ) starring : raul julia and jean claude van-damme 
this movie was based off of a series of never ending sequels to a game called street fighter 2 . it has all the characters from the game in a reasonable plot . 
it is more like a " movie " than it should be . 
yes , it's watchable . 
raul julia does a good job , considering this was his final film . 
while the game had non-stop fighting sequences , this movie is a hodge-podge of action scenes and flashy sets and costumes while trying to show off a plot at the same time . 
does it work ? 
sort of . . . 
the plot involves the evil shadowloo organization run by m . bison ( raul julia ) . 
guile ( jean claude van-damme ) takes his troops to attack bison's main base in an attempt to liberate the innocent villages he has taken over . 
in a short amount of time , the movie introduces several characters well . 
it catches your attention . 
but it ultimately seems like a showcase for fans of the game so you can point out things like " there's chun li ! ! " 
or " look at that fire-ball ryu did at vega " . 
it hits the bases by presenting the characters in a plot with good sets , but goes no further . 
this movie needed more action in the first place . 
the action scenes that are here are short and not very exciting . 
if you like light-hearted action flicks , or if you liked the game , watch this one . 
it is even worth watching if you want to see raul julia's last performance , or if you can't get enough of van damme . 
other than that , you could find better action flicks . 
 . 
studio 54 attracted so many weird and bizarre people to its gates that it's a wonder why the film about the life and death of the studio centers itself on one very boring , cliched individual , not to mention an ensemble of people who wouldn't be at all fascinating unless they worked at the studio , which they did according to this film . 
are we supposed to believe that out of all the strange folk who populated the studio nightly , that a character who is a bland ripoff of tony manero would really make a good protagonist for the film about it ? 
 " 54 " belongs in the elite group of films known as " the big disappointments " : the films that attain so much hype and/or so much potential in its creation that they come off worse than they are when they are finally finished . 
i was heavily awaiting " 54 , " not the least because i've become fascinated with the infamous club , which has been the subject of an engrossing documentary that's been running all summer on vh1 , which is , weirdly enough , much more intriguing and engrossing than this " edgy " film . 
perhaps more importantly , " 54 " is part of the blossoming subgenre , " the 70s nostalgia film , " which has been picking up mighty steam , what with " boogie nights " and " the last days of disco " coming out within the year , and both being such damn good movies that not only captured the feel of a certain time period ( the late 70s party and the early 80s wakeup period ) , but brought us interesting and real characters , like scotty , the tragically gay boom mike operator from " boogie nights , " and charlotte , the ironically clueless and bitchy co-protagonist from " the last days of disco , " not to mention several others . 
 " 54 " deals not so much with the timeline of the studio ( how it began , how it was run , how it ended ) - that's all dealt with in the narrated opening and finale - but more interested in the characters who populated it . 
this is a definite plus . 
here's a film that could have been a fascinating 2 hour plus film about the tragic people who went there to party , and had to wakeup in the 80s when things like diseases , economy problems , and perhaps worst of all , reagan , all hit and forced everyone into a rude awakening . 
the story of the studio is tragedy in itself : let's look at how it all affected the people . 
but this film doesn't let that happen . 
it gives us a half-assed protagonist named shane o'shea ( ryan phillippe , from " i know what you did last summer " ) , who's chief character trait is the fact that he's from new jersey , which also happens to be his chief character flaw ( i guess ) . 
he's dim-witted , into being part of " the scene , " and soon finds he's become a bit of a rave amongst the studio regulars . . . a 
bit like " saturday night fever , " 'cept no travolta and no real interest put into him . 
poor , poor phillippe struggles to make him interesting , but all he is a half-assed character and not at all our ticket to the glimpse of the decadence going on inside the club that he could have been . 
shane begins to hang out with some other denizens of the club , like anita ( salma hayek ) , a wannabe donna sommers , and her young hubby , greg randanzo ( breckin meyer , from " clueless " ) , who helps shane become a bartender and rise to a bit of fame . 
although he begins to get somewhere when he sleeps with the foxy billie auster ( sela ward ) , an exec of sorts , he falls in lust with a soap star named julie black ( neve campbell ) , and thus the boring romance subplot that's all too not necessarily important to anything else in the film and never really becomes interesting at any point in the film . 
the film's sole point of interest and one major strongpoint is the all-too necesary personage of steve rubell , played by mike myers ( you heard me ) . 
rubell , the famous head of the studio acted as if he never stopped partying ever , and is an easy metaphor for the life and times of his creation , but the film , thanks to a surprisingly strong performance by myers , makes him out to be more than that . 
notice the scenes sole shocking scene , where he tries to get felatio from one of his male employees in turn for a promotion : myers brings the humanity to rubell in this scene , and a couple others , that some of us who've only seen him on tv never saw , and proves to be perhaps the one aspect of studio 54 that this film actually nails . 
first time feature director mark christopher proves that he's a better director than a writer , though not too terribly much . 
his story is trite and shallow , as are his characters , and his direction is shockingly flat , especially for a film about this subject . 
it's as if he had a great story to tell , but instead opted for the easier route . 
the studio's recreation is amazingly accurate , though , and very impressive , but his direction is never captivating enough . 
some people say that a film does its job if it makes you want to visit the locale it takes place in ( despite the film's tone , i still want to go to rome and its many nightclubs after i saw fellini's " la dolce vita " ) , and when i watched " 54 , " i didn't particularly want to stay . 
in the past , tim burton has taken cinema by storm with the action packed batman , and the hilarious ed wood , but lately his films just don't cut it . 
sleepy hollow has some unique features , but the script is a terrible mess . 
for those who remember disney's fantastic " adventures of ichabod crane " , it is actually superior to this . 
disney's version was at least interesting , while burton's film drags on far too long , without any suspense or frights . 
while the stories are similar , the new version adds too much to the once likable story , and throws in some weak dialogue to top it off . 
ichabod crane ( johnny depp ) is now apparently a constable , who was sent to new york to investigate suspicious murders . 
the victims are headless , and no traces of evidence were found , until the murderer reveals himself , hence the headless horseman . 
now with the help of christina ricci and an orphaned boy , they must stop the headless horseman from a killing spree , that could destroy the whole town of sleepy hollow . 
sure the headless horseman is an intriguing character , but the story has so many holes that even he nor depp can save this disaster . 
in the original , the headless horseman was meant to be unstoppable . 
no one could stop him , not even ichabod . 
by the end of the film , it had audiences in deep thought . 
burton however concentrates far too much on the atmosphere , and how to make the main characters heroes . 
he takes no risk what so ever , and this is where he fails . 
another pathetic element of the film was the script . 
like i said earlier , he just stuffed too much in at one time , and made it look real sloppy , kind of like the mess the headless horseman made with his victims . 
he completely butchered the story to pieces . 
thankfully there are a few factors that i particularly liked . 
the acting by depp was quite notable . 
he took the nerdy character of the cartoon , and simply acted it out in a better manner . 
if it wasn't for his quirky one-liners , i doubt i could have remained awake , because quite frankly i was getting sleepy . 
just when i thought christina ricci was getting to be a good actress , she winds up doing this . 
it just goes to show no actress or actor can pass up a big blockbuster . 
it's too tempting to let go , even if the script is mush . 
the atmosphere too was quite involving . 
i should have just gazed at the sets , and the eerie fog , rather than actually pay attention to what was going on . 
at least burton's films are eye candy , even if they are trash . 
the only real scenes of value were the tree full of heads , and the fight between the horseman , depp and casper van dien . 
other than that , i wish i could just fast forward through all the gaping holes in the film , and just sit back and stare at the scenery . 
by the end , i can only think back and laugh at how bad sleepy hollow developed . 
this is the biggest disappointment of the year , especially when such a talented director like burton handles a project like this . 
don't waste your time or money , because your head will feel hollow . 
plot : a rich psychiatrist with a great home life gets his cute daughter kidnapped by some bad guys who want him to extract some information from the mind of one of his nutty patients . 
of course , the patient is not cooperative and the doctor only has a few hours to comply with their demands , before they kill his daughter . 
pretty good premise , no ? 
critique : if you're not a fan of movies packed with plot holes , inconsistencies and yes , even more plot holes , heed my words and skip this hollow thriller . 
and i don't like saying that either , since this film actually had some potential and started off pretty well . 
sure , the story is basically just an amalgamation of ransom , primal fear and nick of time pureed into one , but the whole " psychiatrist working against the clock " thing , actually had me engaged at first . 
but it's at about the halfway mark of this movie , that the bottom drops out and all that we're left with are a lot of questions and very few plausible answers . 
we get the overly smart kid who manages to " pull one " over on the bad guys . 
we get a weak woman with her leg in a cast beating the crap out of a tough bad guy . 
we get douglas' character , a new york uppedity psychiatrist , suddenly turning into an action hero , with moves and attitude to boot . 
and what about the film's main plot point ? 
why would the bad guys still give a crap about this thing after 10 years , and even more so , why would they only give the shrink until the day's end to do his part ? 
 ( you waited 10 years , what's another few days ? - or why not set up another heist instead ? ) . 
i'll tell you why , it's because we wouldn't have a ( bad ) movie otherwise , that's why ! 
and many , many more . 
ugh , whatever the case , it was just about the time that douglas' character suddenly removed murphy's character from the mental home ( and how come she went with him so nicely ? 
i thought she didn't trust him ) , that i turned to my buddy and asked when the movie had turned into a joke . 
and a few bogus chase and action sequences later , we were left with a long-winded ending that did little to answer any other questions i might've still had , and actually brought up even more contradictions . 
badly put together , this movie features some decent acting , some nice cinematography and an initially interesting premise , but loses it all in a haze of plot miscues which ultimately leave you with little care for anyone . 
in fact , if it wasn't for brittany murphy's excellent portrayal of a traumatized teen , jennifer esposito's embarrassing performance as a police woman ( yeah , right ! 
watching her delivering lines was the funniest part of this flick- but it wasn't supposed to be ) and michael douglas' cool " regular guy " part , there would be little reason to remain seated until the end of this picture . 
incidentally , can anyone please give me one good reason why esposito's character was in this movie in the first place ? 
she was completely superfluous . 
and on top of all that , by the end of this flick , the director seems to have realized how dumb the audience must be to have bought most of the garbage that he'd been shoveling out for the hour and a half prior , and decides to add insult to injury by flashing back to an earlier character's death when one of the bad guys dies , just so we know ( as an audience ) , that the two are interrelated somehow . 
ooooh , thanks , mr . fleder . . . i 
appreciate the spoon-feeding , dude . . . yum , 
yum . . . but 
how about explaining every other plot point in your film that made no sense ? 
whatever . 
either way , i don't give a rat's ass because this movie is a dog and that's unfortunate because it actually did have some good points going for it . 
see it if you like dumb thrillers . 
incidentally , if you appreciated along came a spider , you will likely enjoy this film as well . 
they both start off with interesting premises , only to toss all logic and sense out the window about halfway through . 
where's joblo coming from ? 
along came a spider ( 4/10 ) - girl , interrupted ( 5/10 ) - kiss the girls ( 7/10 ) - primal fear ( 7/10 ) -- seven ( 10/10 ) 
i wish more films would take on issues of faith and morality in the modern world . 
and i wish that film-makers would use commandments as a blueprint on how _not_ to do it . 
writer/director daniel taplitz has created a bizarre conglomeration of satire and soul-searching in this tale of seth warner ( aidan quinn ) , a man of faith who runs into a streak of bad luck which usually inspires country-western lyrics : his pregnant wife drowns , his home is destroyed by a tornado , he loses his job and his dog is crippled by a bolt of lightning . 
convinced that god has broken his half of the covenant , seth decides to break his , and sets out to turn every " thou shalt not " of the ten commandments into a " thou shalt " ( and vice versa ) . 
his wife's sister rachel ( " friends " ' courteney cox ) wants to help seth ; rachel's selfish husband harry ( anthony lapaglia ) , who tends to break a few commandments of his own , thinks seth is a lunatic . 
thus begins a film which picks the wrong tone for every occasion . 
taplitz isn't interested in treating seth's tragedies as genuinely tragic , making it impossible to sympathize with him . 
composer joseph vitarelli provides a score full of whimsical woodwinds , turning seth's sacrilegious mission into an amusing lark ; quinn's performance as seth is all wild-eyed fervor without any genuine pain . 
the actual breaking of the commandments is almost treated as an afterthought , with one through five dispatched in a five-minute montage . 
the result is a character whose actions feel less like the authentic responses of an anguished man than the machinations of a high-concept movie plot . 
it's not even entirely clear that commandments is about seth . 
corporate attorney rachel is given a case which is supposed to soften a hard heart we see no indication she has , while harry gets his comeuppance as part of seth's " false witness . " 
only courteney cox strikes a note of reality in a solid performance ; she is sane center around which too equally troubled men revolve . 
even she can't force taplitz to decide whose story this is , or what we should have learned about dealing with the struggles in our lives and our relationship with the infinite . 
by the time seth makes a singularly biblical reappearance late in the film , it has become clear that taplitz is aiming for a fantastical fable which makes no connection with real human experience . 
commandments is a bad comedy which could have been a decent drama if daniel taplitz had had the guts to take faith -- and the loss thereof -- at all seriously . 
the high school comedy seems to be a hot genre of the moment . 
with she's all that and varsity blues behind us , and several more set for release later in the year , the teen comedy seems to be experiencing its own renaissance . 
however , you wouldn't know it from the quality of the latest entry : jawbreaker . 
this shockingly bitter candy definitely has a sour center . 
the most popular , and most feared , clique at reagan high school have an unexpected dilemma . 
they have accidentally killed one of their own , the " teen dream " , liz purr ( charlotte roldan ) , choked on a giant jawbreaker during a kidnapping prank for her 17th birthday . 
now the three surviving girls must decide what to do . 
it takes little time at all for the group's leader , courtney ( rose mcgowan ) , to decide to cover it up . 
the ditzy marcie ( julie benz ) is game to go along , but the clique's final member , julie ( rebecca gayheart ) , has a guilty conscience . 
to make things worse , another student , the hopelessly geeky fern mayo ( judy evans greer ) accidentally discovers the truth . 
the girls' cover is surely blown . . . 
not so fast . 
thinking quickly , courtney offers fern a once-in-a-lifetime chance . 
after a quick makeover , fern is transformed into vylette , the beautiful " new girl " at school , and a full-fledged member of the popular crowd . 
does this mean that popularity is the key to getting away with murder ? 
or will this finely honed plan crack over time ? 
jawbreaker is obviously attempting to be the heathers of its generation , and failing miserably , i might add . 
it manages to capture the mix of murder and teen social observations , but misses three crucial elements : sharp dialogue , witty characters and the much-needed humor . 
it is possible that jawbreaker might have succeeded in being ( darkly ) humorous if it wasn't shackled to its dead-weight plot . 
the film's most innovative twist is the makeover of fern mayo . 
at this point , jawbreaker seems poised to spin wildly into the uncharted depths . 
but then , all of a sudden , the innovation stops . 
the film becomes mired in the murder-and-cover-up plotting , which quickly saps what little life and energy there was right out of the film . 
in the film , rose mcgowan fares the best . 
as the manipulative clique leader , she truly dominates every scene she's in ( not a difficult feat in a crowd such as this , however ) . 
it's a character crying out for a better movie ( or at least another decently drawn character with which to interact . ) 
jawbreaker doesn't quite know how to handle its semi-likable characters : fern and julie . 
either one could effectively end the movie at any time by simply revealing what she knows . 
the lengths to which the film goes to prolong the plot have the unintentional effect of distancing us from these characters . 
as their motives become murky and unclear , the film finally falls to the point that it doesn't really matter who wins or loses , since all sides have become equally detestable . 
 " detestable " is a good word to describe the film , jawbreaker . 
it's certain that , like the murder weapon described in the film's title , jawbreaker will be triggering more than one gag reflex in the audience . 
capsule : a wild jungle woman and an 11-story gorilla are discovered in tibet and taken to hong kong where the gorilla escapes and causes havoc . 
this is a laughable 1977 rip off of king kong ( 1976 ) , itself a rip-off . 
production values are low and audiences seem to like the film mostly for derisive laughter . 
 , high -2 ( -4 to +4 ) 
- directed by ho meng-hua . 
- this film is provided to be a sort of laughing stock to finish the festival . 
- an earthquake uncovers an 11-story tall gorilla in the himalayas . 
a hunter , chosen because he just broke up with his girl and is at loose ends , gets sent to find the ape and finds a sort of female tarzan who controls the ape . 
- evelyne kraft is the jungle girl in a leather bikini that she is pasted into so she always looks on the verge of bouncing out of . 
- gorilla actor has no idea how gorillas move and suit is terrible . 
nice miniature effects , however . 
- has almost a music video inside it of jungle girl playing with animals like chi-chi the leopard . 
- several places there is narrative that is nearly incoherent as if there are missing scenes and the viewer has to guess what happened in the interim . 
- actual location shooting in mysore . 
ape shown badly matted behind temple . 
- combining of images usually pretty bad . 
incompetent matching of film stocks . 
- stock footage frequently used . 
- gorilla brought to hong kong by greedy entrepreneur who really abuses the ape before it escapes and tears things up real good . 
`the bachelor' is one of the best terrible movies you will ever see . 
wading through this gooey , detestable sludge is quite the chore for even a dedicated romantic . 
those hoping to find some genuine charm and feeling behind this chris o'donnell vehicle should wander elsewhere ; `the bachelor' is a painfully clumsy mess strung together with a few brief moments of surprising poignancy . 
awaiting these moments by enduring the rest of the film is certainly not worth your time or money . 
although he has not quite evolved out of the stereotypical pretty-boy cocoon , chris o'donnell has an effortless charm as an actor . 
most will recognize him as the high-flying robin from the two latest `batman' films , but other abilities are evident behind his boyish smile . 
can o'donnell carry the weight of a film on his shoulders ? 
perhaps , if he found the proper vehicle . . . 
but `the bachelor' falls far short of the requirements . 
the actor just can't register with such a pathetic screenplay as the guiding light to success . 
a few instances of adorable humor aside , it becomes apparent that no one could save the festering mess that is `the bachelor' . 
o'donnell plays jimmie , a hopeless romantic in his late twenties who's progressing in a serious relationship with anne ( renee zellweger ) . 
jimmie takes anne out for dinner to the restaurant specifically used for proposals , and attempts to ask for her hand in marriage . 
the problem is that his proposal sucks . 
big time . 
you can tell things aren't going pleasantly , because jimmie gets the infamous ? deer-in-the-headlights' look when anne questions his approach . 
and then , the plot ( along with the stupidity of the movie ) thickens . 
jimmie's grandfather ( peter ustinov ) dies suddenly , leaving a video will behind for his grandson ( who also happens to be his only living relative ) . 
everybody is speechless when grandpa declares that he is passing down an inheritance in the amount of 100 million dollars to jimmie . 
of course , there's a catch : he must get married before his 30th birthday , stay joined with his bride for an entire decade , and produce healthy children within the first five years . 
the bad news is that jimmie's birthday is the following day . 
with anne out of town , he must find a willing bride to share his riches with . . . 
and within a very limited time frame . 
there are certainly a few worthwhile aspects of `the bachelor' . 
for one , the movie's approach is interesting and not dripping with clich ? . 
another is the colorful cast . 
o'donnell and zellweger are cute together , and the supporting cast tries relentlessly to rescue the film from drowning in it's own mediocrity . 
ustinov is enjoyable as the cranky grandfather figure , and james cromwell is sincere and effective as a wise priest dragged through jimmie's marital adventures . 
and now the cons : the approach may be interesting , but in trying an old-fashioned method , director gary sinyor gives the film a synthetic feel . 
the characters are drawn with obvious , broad strokes , and the plot is bogged down with everything humanly imaginable . 
yes , `the bachelor' is far more frustrating than cute . 
the screenplay is lamely written , and the subject matter poorly conceived . 
the considerable charm of the two leads is thoughtlessly wasted , along with whatever promise the film initially contained . 
potential goes out the window early to suit sinyor's `colorful' approach , but not a minute of this hapless drivel seems accustomed to the director's wishes . 
`the bachelor' becomes lost without a homing beacon to save it . 
you've seen the tv spots , haven't you ? 
o'donnell is madly rushing down a deserted street and the caption reads `what is this man running from ? ' 
in actuality , he's fleeing from thousands of angry brides who want to marry him and inherit his fortune ( it's one of the few enjoyable sequences in the film ) . 
after seeing the movie , i believe that the approaching horde could be something else . 
o'donnell could be running from his angry fans , who have just endured `the bachelor' , and are hunting him down for revenge . 
topless women talk about their lives falls into that category that i mentioned in the devil's advocate : movies that have a brilliant beginning but don't know how to end . 
it begins by introducing us to a selection of characters who all know each other . 
there is liz , who oversleeps and so is running late for her appointment , prue who is getting married , geoff , liz's boyfriend , neil , her previous boyfriend , ant who has written a screenplay . 
for the first hour , we get to know these people through everyday activities , as they talk on the phone , go out to dinner , hang clothes on the line . 
the interactions seem so truthful and guileless that it is almost as if the film-makers hid cameras around the place and filmed these people unbeknownst to them . 
at times , the events border on the ridiculous , like the screening of the film , but they still seem in keeping with the characters and their lives . 
this doesn't sound like a brilliant premise for a film - " we just follow a lot of people around who are vaguely related " - but it's the execution of the idea that makes topless women talk about their lives so engrossing . 
unfortunately this level of honesty isn't maintained . 
with about half an hour to go , a sense of impending doom invades topless women talk about their lives and from there is descends into melodrama . 
such a disappointment after such a brilliant start . 
the actors are all quite good with ms . danielle cormack as liz being particularly impressive . 
the energy of her character is palpable and is a major reason the movie is so watchable . 
a lot of the performances are a bit rough around the edges but this suits totally the documentary feel of the film . 
it seems like these are real people we are watching rather than actors playing roles . 
that is why the melodramatic turn of events comes as such a shock . 
up till that point , i was transported to this world where these real but mildly insane events were taking place . 
while the final half hour is not beyond the realms of possibility , it's unlikely in a way that is jarring to someone caught up in the world of the film . 
not just the events , but also the tone of some of the end is wrong , clashing strongly with the sense of fun that has preceded it . 
this is not to say that topless women talk about their lives is not a good film . 
as stated above , the first hour is superb and even the end is above average . 
it just takes a turn which means that an otherwise brilliant movie loses some of its gloss . 
beware of movies with the director's name in the title . 
take " john carpenter's ghosts of mars " ( please ) . 
if the carpenter brand name wasn't superglued to the title , this embarrassment would surely have bypassed theaters entirely and gone straight to its proper home on the usa network . 
and i would have been spared a headache . 
the latest from the director of " starman , " " halloween " and " escape from new york " is a lousy western all gussied up to look like a futuristic horror flick . 
the production is set on mars in 2176 , where humanity looks for relief from the overpopulation strangling their home world . 
six hundred and forty thousand people in a matriarchal society live and work at outposts all over the red planet , terra-forming to make it more hospitable for future generations . 
a matriarchal society . 
terra-forming . 
sounds pretty intriguing , eh ? 
well , don't get your hopes up . 
august and september are a wasteland when it comes to children's films , and october is a dumping ground for munchkin movies the studios don't want to see slaughtered against family-oriented thanksgiving films . 
last year , the benevolent studio gods gave us digimon , and this year , they bestow max keeble's big move on delighted moviegoers across the country . 
parents will be thrilled because they'll finally have something to drag little austin and kayla to see that doesn't smell nearly as much like ass as digimon did . 
don't get me wrong - keeble , which is actually only a " ment " away from being a fetish film , isn't that entertaining . 
in fact , you'd be better off waiting to blow your disposable income when the real kiddie pics ( monsters , inc . , harry potter ) come out next month . 
but if dubya dubya iii tells you to go out and spend money to stimulate the economy , then you'd better do it ( because gassing up the minivan twice a week just isn't going to cut it ) . 
we first see young max keeble ( alex d . linz , home alone 3 ) as a pint-sized superhero , delivering newspapers with the pinpoint accuracy of a david beckham cross , foiling the diabolical plans of the evil ice cream man ( jamie kennedy , jay and silent bob strike back ) and landing the neighborhood honey ( brooke anne smith ) , who , by the way , is the hottest chick in a disney film since emmanuelle chriqui played claire boner in snow day . 
the scenario is , of course , a dream . 
max is really a doofus and he wakes up on his first day of junior high school with a pessimistic attitude , no luck with the ladies and only two friends , both of whom can kindly be described as social outcasts ( and who were both in snow day ) - the perpetually robed robe ( josh peck ) and a clarinet-playing cutie named megan ( summer catch's zena grey ) , who harbors secret feelings for max . 
things don't get any better for max when he arrives at school . 
he has to contend with , among other things , a red-hot science teacher ( amber valletta , family man ) , a pair of polar-opposite bullies ( noel fisher and orlando brown ) , and an illiterate principal ( larry miller , the princess diaries ) who's secretly diverting the school's last dime into the football program . 
when max's father ( grownup nerd robert carradine ) unexpectedly announces the family is moving to a new town at the end of the week , max decides this is the perfect time to exact revenge on everyone who pisses him off . 
whoa - don't worry , parents . 
he doesn't do it klebold-harris style . 
it's all pretty tame stuff , but max ends up in hot water when dad nixes the move , leaving his son dangling in the wind like so many tampon strings . 
director tim hill ( muppets from space ) adds a few nice touches , like max's voiceover character introductions for the film's main characters and a flashback scene that's pretty funny , but there isn't too much else happening here stylewise . . . unless 
you count some farting , a little puking , and a couple of bizarre cameos from tony hawk and lil' romeo . 
1 : 30 - pg for some bullying and crude humor 
the event horizon is the boundary of a black hole . . . 
and , in the future , it's also the name of a spaceship that vanished when it tried to go faster than the speed of light by traversing through its own portable black hole . 
naturally , this is the setup for the other event horizon . . . 
the movie . 
when the ship suddenly appears at the point that it vanished at , just outside of neptune , the crew of the ship called the " lewis and clark " has to go to investigate , and dr . william weir , the creator of the " event horizon , " gets to come along for the ride . 
if you've glanced at a poster for this movie , you know that , supposedly , what follows is " infinite terror . " 
well , i don't know about the " terror " part , but " infinite " certainly seems to qualify . . . 
event horizon is a mean-spirited , gory , sick excuse for a film . 
it starts off as an alien rip-off , and then degenerates into a pointlessly bloody slasher flick after about 40 minutes . 
at least for those first 40 minutes it's an * interesting * rip-off of alien . 
that's a lot more than can be said for the rest of them movie , which seems to go on forever . 
it not a scary monster movie , nor is it a psychological thriller . 
it is simply a movie which tries again and again to make the viewers feel sick to their stomach at the site of extreme gore . 
you've seen this kind of movie before . 
the hellraiser series had plenty of scenes containing this sensibility . 
this is a kind of movie for which i have no respect , a kind of movie which i had hoped died out years ago . 
it is quite possible for a movie to frighten or shock its audience without resorting to nothing more than gore , but event horizon takes the low road , and the viewers pay the price . 
there are many good , respectable performances , from fishburne and neill most noticably . 
paul anderson's direction is impressive , as it was in mortal kombat . 
there are many nice special effects , mostly dealing with numerous common objects floating around in zero-gravity . 
the sets are beautiful to gaze upon . 
and richard t . jones' character ( cooper ) is hilarious and extremely likable ( more so than most characters i've seen in recent movies ) for the little screen time that he has . 
and none of this can save the movie from being a d-grade level of film . 
the idea of a ship that has some sort of life within its walls , a life that knows the fears and inner skeletons of the human passengers , is a promising one . 
a haunted house story in space isn't such a bad idea . 
but the final execution is extremely disappointing . 
that's not to say that philip eisner ( here making his feature film-writing debut ) doesn't have talent . 
for those first 40 minutes , he manages to make a tired premise interesting , adding in aspects of unique flavor into a rip-off story , and that's something that not too many writers can do . 
he even has one scene that , though it also tries to sicken the audience , has a honestly tense feel to it ( the scene in question deals with one of the crew being in an airlock while others try to save him from floating into space ) . 
he definitely has something of a gift , but it's not fully on display here . 
i certainly will look forward to seeing more from him , and i hope that his future work fully explores his talent and the story possibilities of the premise . 
but because of what this movie degenerates into , i have little or no respect , and got little or no enjoyment , out of it . 
if this is what we have to look forward to in the future of film , then i agree with laurence fishburne's sentiment - " god help us . " 
there is a rule when it comes to movies . 
a sequel is never as good as the original . 
there are very few exceptions to this rule , and texas chainsaw massacre : the next generation is not one of them . 
now if you also take into consideration that the original chainsaw massacre was a really bad movie , and that this isn't even the first sequel to it , you have a recipe for a very painful viewing experience . 
don't be fooled by the presence of up and coming talents matthew mcconaughey ( a time to kill ) and renee zellweger ( jerry maguire ) . 
they made this movie before they were stars . 
judging by their performances they also made it before they took any acting lessons . 
it's a wonder they ever worked in hollywood again after appearing in this turkey . 
apparently the producers of this film realized just how bad it was , because it sat unreleased for years until someone decided that they might be able to capitalize off the success of mcconaughey and zellweger . 
apparently the two young stars were none too happy about this thing ever seeing the light of day . 
and i don't blame them , they would have been better off if this had been some sort of porno flick starring the two of them . 
unfortunately for them it is a horror film in which zellweger plays your typically stupid horror film character . 
while mcconaughey plays a guy who wears a mechanical brace on his leg that he controls with a television remote control . 
 ( hey , don't say i didn't warn you . ) 
to make matters worse , leatherface , the chainsaw wielding maniac , who was never the scariest of psychopathic killers at the best of times , has now become a full blown cross-dresser , and spends the entire movie in drag . 
there is a plot to this movie but it isn't worth mentioning . 
let's just suffice to say that a group of teenagers are in the typical wrong place at the wrong time and are left to the mercy of remote control man ( mcconaughey ) and his lipstick wearing chainsaw revving half-witted sidekick . 
man , i can't get over just how bad this movie is . 
this film has absolutely no redeeming qualities . 
even the obligatory topless babe shot wasn't enough to hold my interest for more than 2 seconds . 
the writing is bad , the direction is even worse , but both of those things look good in comparison to the acting . 
this is the sort of movie that they should make people in prison watch . 
a guarantee you , if criminals thought that they would be subjected to this film they would never break the law again . 
as a hot-shot defense attorney , kevin lomax ( keanu reeves ) has a special talent for picking juries that will ultimately acquit his clients . 
he is also an excellent judge of character , knowing just which strings to pull to sway the jury while breaking down a potentially damaging witness's testimony . 
and , on top of that , he's a damn good trial lawyer . 
in the opening scene , it is obvious that the defendant that he represents is guilty , but it doesn't hamper lomax's desire to creatively squeeze his client through the doors of reasonable doubt , thereby getting an acquittal . 
his unblemished record of victories soon captures the attention of one of the most prestigious firms in the country , headed by john milton ( al pacino ) . 
he is brought to their headquarters in nyc , where he immediately impresses milton , and is subsequently offered a full-time position as head of their newly-created criminal law division . 
lomax is soon given the case of his life . 
he must defend a real estate tycoon who has been charged with a triple homicide . 
the draw of fame and his desire to prove just how good he really is begins to isolate him in his own hell . 
he works late , defends the guilty , pledges his soul to his firm , and begins to neglect his smart but fretful wife , mary ann ( charlize theron ) . 
but what starts off as a promising john grisham-like story about conscience-stricken lawyers takes an abrupt detour as supernatural forces begin to tinker with the story . 
it begins like a typical parable where a small-town boy makes it big , but then has to balance his sense of self against the allure of money , power , and greed . 
but milton is far more than just a corrupt partner of the firm . 
quite literally , he is the devil in disguise , and as the movie progresses , he reveals some uncanny talents that one could have only if he had sold his soul long ago . 
freaky and frightening things begin to happen , and after much of the film has elasped , milton's horrifying intent is finally revealed . 
the movie tries to give us two separate and distinct acts . 
the first involves the comeuppance of lomax as a big-city trial lawyer . 
the second focuses on milton and his ulterior motive for employing lomax . 
unfortunately , the two never mix well into a cohesive story , and what we get are two underdeveloped stories that rely too much on one shaky revelation to tie them together and an impressive production piece to give it an underlying atmosphere . 
granted , the film is very handsome-looking . 
you'll enjoy the final scene where the wall mural seemingly comes to life during a heated speech given by pacino . 
you'll also like the images of power and temptation expressed through the fleshy and flashy parties . 
you'll also feel the loneliness and insanity that sets in with mary ann , knowing that her husband is slowly drifting away . 
this was one of the better storylines , but unfortunately , is only a sub-plot . 
as with all thing's involving the devil , you can expect nothing but the worst . 
in the first few scenes , reeves anchors the film , but then slowly drifts into the background . 
his path from self-vanity to self-consciousness is never fully explored . 
his actions seem arbitrary , and his reasons for them not fully known . 
pacino's comical portrayal is spirited , but the vanity of his character begins to shift the focus of the movie . 
there is another plot or two that is introduced , but never gets revisited . 
the focus seemed inconsistent throughout , and the final payoff seemed quick and cheap . 
this movie tries to be horrifying , thrilling , and dramatic all at the same time . 
however , while the devil's advocate strives to get noticed , ultimately it makes very little impression at all . 
i'm not sure i should be writing a review of the witches of eastwick , because i'm not sure just what the hell ( pardon the expression ) was going on in it . 
however , i can express the most important observation i made of it , i . e . 
i didn't like it . 
if i had to summarize this film , i think i'd conclude it was an updating of one of those old new england folk tales of someone selling their souls to old scratch and how they try to get out of the deal . 
that's the kernel of it , anyway . 
tossed into this are little bits and pieces that occasionally seem to be saying something about men and women , feminism , the role of the devil , modern reformers , and friendship . 
unfortunately , little or no effort is ever made to follow up and elucidate on these concepts ; they're simply thrown out and then left to rot while the film goes on apace . 
actually , i think that most of the audience was even more confused than i was . 
they came in expecting some kind of supernatural comedy , on the level of ghostbusters , and were a bit confused to be getting a folk tale with philosophical overtones . 
they laughed , or tried to laugh , at moments that were either barely funny , or much more horrible than funny , as if that could bend the film away from it's rather frightening direction . 
three women ( cher , susan sarandon , and michelle pfieffer ) live in eastwick , a small midwestern town . 
one night , while drinking late into the evening , they begin wishing for the ideal man to drop into their lives . 
in seeming answer to their idle daydreams , a wealthy eccentric moves into a mansion on the hill and seduces each one by attempting to be everything they want him to be . 
he soon shows evidence of mystical--perhaps demonic--power , and his devotion to the women's merest fantasies or wishes has dangerous overtones . 
even worse , when ignored his moods become ugly , and he mistreats the women for spurning him . 
anyway , the problems : all three female characters are fairly uninteresting , and several are cardboard stereotypes , especially sarandon's character . 
we never get inside them , never feel sympathetic to them , because their dialogue and personalities seem pretty bland . 
as for nicholson , well , even the devil needs a direction to go in , and while darryl van horne is the most interesting character in the movie ( due to the grace of the screenwriter and , more importantly , nicholson's acting ) , he still can't be yanked in one direction and then another without making him a little vague . 
and then there's the special effects . 
not in themselves--they weren't that good--but their overuse . 
i was almost positive , until i saw the credits , that the witches of eastwick was either produced by alexander salkind ( who has turned out the slop named superman ii and iii and supergirl ) , because of the big name actors in dopy stunts , or stephen spielberg , after the 18th vomit scene and the nicholson-blown-down-the-street stunt . 
nope , it's another bunch of guys , and directed by george miller , who has shown great skill with stunts/special effects before ( the road warrior , " nightmare at 20 , 00 feet " episode of twilight zone : the movie ) but apparently doesn't know when to turn off the wind machine and let his people act . 
f'gawds sake , guys , this is jack nicholson ! 
let him loose ! 
let him grin demonically ! 
skip the splitting earth and fake lightning ! 
watching the scene where nicholson is tossed out of the car by the voodoo doll , all i could think of was , " what a waste " . 
if you're going to use slapstick like that , use it up on pee wee herman . 
nicholson does what he can with the role , and when he can find his bearings , can be extremely good ( the scene in the church , for instance ) , but most of the time , he seems a bit stiff , as if he's not sure what he should be doing next . 
and no wonder . 
this script goes all over the map , giving you the feeling that it'd just love to be allegory , but it's not sure about what-- maybe if you give it time it'll think of something . 
so what is the witches of eastwick ? 
a horror movie ? 
a folk tale ? 
a comedy ? 
a statement about women ? 
an examination of the religious right or comparitive morality ? 
i tend to think of the image that seems to dominate the movie for me . . . watching 
someone regurgitate half-digested bits of food and cherry pits all over rooms , people , the screen , and ultimately , the audience . 
in other words , a mess . 
 ( $2 . 00 ) 
if you like nicholson enough to watch him here ; maybe 25% of his charm is able to make it through the logjams of others . 
the most interesting thing about virus is that the title of the film does not refer to the clunky robotic animals that try to kill our heroes . 
alas , it refers to our heroes ! 
as it turns out , the alien race that sends a computer virus to earth ( via the mir space station ) thinks of the human race as a virus -- perhaps even a cancer -- that needs to be eradicated before it spreads any further . 
after all , we have taken up this entire planet , and if they let us live for another billion years or so , we might advance beyond our solar system and into the next one . 
but the human race doesn't have much to worry about . 
after all , there's a woman named foster ( jamie lee curtis ) out there stopping the computer virus . 
she's the chief navigator on a sea vessel ; travelling with her is captain everton ( donald sutherland ) , steve baker ( william baldwin ) , woods ( marshall bell ) , squeaky ( julio oscar mechoso ) , and richie ( sherman augustus ) . 
they're all sailing in a typhoon one lovely evening when they stumble across an enormous , abandoned russian satellite ship in international waters . 
lucky for us , we already saw that the computer virus has taken over the ship and eliminated everyone on board . 
the evil captain everton thinks he's going to take the ship in and get a reward ; he convinces his crew that there's going to be big money , so they try to salvage the ship . 
soon , however , when it's apparent that no one is on board and that the ship has no power , they realize that something bad must have happened . 
finally , they meet nadia ( joanna pacula ) who explains their situation : a computer virus has taken over the ship ! 
it's creating bio-mechanical life-forms to eliminate the human race ! 
virus is a truly dumb action thriller , one of negligible intelligence and innovation . 
when considering the entire film , you will realize that it lacks a single original scene . 
it's a direct rip-off of nearly every james cameron film ( aliens , the abyss , and the terminator films are the most plagiarized ) ; more importantly , it's basically the same movie as last year's deep rising . 
i liked deep rising simply because it's funny -- it knows it's silly and derivative . 
virus takes itself seriously . 
and , in the most serious manner possible , it steals from every good and bad film of the genre , showing you countless familiar scenes , and sporting a cookie-cutter plot that any film of the sci-fi/horror genre could fit with a little trimming . 
but what is so amazing about virus is how poorly the whole thing has been thought out . 
okay , let me get this straight -- the alien race ( which is never really explained ) is basically sentient electricity . 
they need to make themselves physical , so they use a space station to get onto a ship ( which is surrounded by water , but who cares about that ) . 
on the ship , they make a bunch of clunky , immobile robots that somehow kill three hundred people . 
after that , they start using the dead people to create half-human , half-machine creatures that look like the terminator but are much worse at walking around . 
the leader , of course , is a big creature . 
every film like this has a big creature at the end , but the big creature in virus is so big that it has to tear down the walls to move around . 
virus is indeed a cliched film , but the central flaw lies in the fact that the computer virus just isn't very threatening . 
it's established that they can simply turn off the power to stop it , but the virus has sealed the power room by the time our heroes get there . 
on one level , virus is almost passable fun . 
it's really gory , and a few of the scenes have interesting camp appeal ( the director , john bruno , worked on a lot of cameron's films ) . 
there's also a nice array of actors , even though none of them do any acting ( except for donald sutherland , who does a lot of very bad acting ) . 
the bottom line , however , is this : virus is a bad movie . 
it rips off a lot of good movies that are worth seeing . 
in that order , i recommend that you rent any one of the alien films , simply to admire the qualities of a creature that actually threatens our heroes . 
an american werewolf in paris is a failed attempt to recapture the humor and horror of john landis' 1981 feature , an american werewolf in london . 
where the original had comedy , the sequel has the kind of revolting silliness that can be found in tv sit-coms . 
where the first installment had chills , this one has sequences that are inappropriately , unintentionally funny . 
in short , while an american werewolf in london has become something of a minor classic in its genre , the woeful an american werewolf in paris seems destined for late nights on cinemax ( it even has the necessary gratuitous nudity ) . 
the film opens with a trio of daredevil americans -- andy ( tom everett scott ) , brad ( vince vieluf ) , and chris ( phil buckman ) -- sneaking up to the top of the eiffel tower to drink wine and do a little bungee jumping . 
soon they have company in the person of serafine ( julie delpy ) , who has decided to end it all . 
she jumps , but andy , with a bungee cord attached , goes after her , and manages to save her ( at the price of a major headache ) . 
serafine disappears , but a smitten andy seeks her out . 
however , once he learns his would-be girlfriend's dark secret , he wishes he hadn't . 
she's a werewolf , cursed to change into a hideous beast when the moon is full , and , to make matters worse , he has suffered a nasty bite himself . 
actress julie delpy is far too good for this movie . 
she imbues serafine with spirit , spunk , and humanity , which gives us an emotional stake in the character's fate . 
this isn't necessarily a good thing , since it prevents us from relaxing and enjoying an american werewolf in paris as a completely mindless , campy entertainment experience . 
delpy's injection of class into an otherwise classless production raises the specter of what this film could have been with a better script and a better cast surrounding her . 
delpy's previous credits include such memorable ventures as krzysztof kieslowski's white and richard linklater's before sunrise . 
she was radiant , charismatic , and effective in both . 
given the nature and level of the material she has to work with here , she gets as close as possible to those adjectives . 
it could be argued that delpy is the only reason to see an american werewolf in paris , but even her most devoted fans should consider giving this one a miss . 
and if your primary objective is catching a glimpse of her in the buff , check out either killing zoe or the passion of beatrice -- those movies have intelligible plots in addition to breasts . 
the rest of the cast acts at a level considerably below that of delpy -- which is to say , they give performances appropriate for the screenplay . 
tom everett scott ( that thing you do ) plays the lead like he's in a made-for-tv movie . 
it would be kind to call him bland . 
actors vince vieluf and phil buckman , as andy's friends , are no more impressive . 
julie bowen ( happy gilmore ) is suitably fetching as werewolf meat . 
and respected french actor thierry lhermitte has a brief turn as another monster meal . 
on the technical side , it's all bad news . 
the computer-generated werewolves look painfully unreal . 
the creatures would probably have been more believable had they been men in wolf suits . 
repeated use is made of the " werewolf cam " , an infrared wolf's point-of-view approach that's interesting the first couple of times it's employed , then becomes tedious . 
and the soundtrack includes some alternative grunge rock tunes that clash violently with the on-screen action they're matched to . 
director anthony waller , who displayed a confident , edgy style in mute witness , stumbles with this material , never being able to make the comedy and horror elements gel . 
as a result , we get the worst werewolf sequel since the howling ii : your sister is a werewolf . 
 ( i will give waller credit for killing off a dog , though -- something that's rarely seen in movies these days . ) an american werewolf in paris is marginally entertaining in a " bad movie " sort of way , but that's a dubious distinction . 
ultimately , it's an unfortunate effort , for , while it isn't unbearable to sit through , it isn't a howl , either . 
depending on who you ask , the original sin was either the eating of the apple , the act of disobedience against god , or the act of betrayal . 
but in case you didn't know this , don't bother remembering it . . . 
the words " original sin " never come up in the movie of the same name , let alone the concept of it . 
the closest the film even gets to catholicism is in its narrative ( the story is told by angelina jolie to her priest while on death row in cuba , circa 1900 ) . 
regardless of its senseless title , original sin does actually have a plot ( albeit one of the most mangled acts of screenwriting since the art of war , based on the book waltz across darkness ) . 
boy ( antionio banderas ) places personal ad sometime around 1900 , searching for a wife . 
since this is a century ago , we narrowly dodge a remake of green card , only to find that the girl ( jolie ) faked her photo and is actually beautiful . 
skipping a few moderately useless sex scenes ( getting the question out of the way , yes , we get to see angelina jolie's breasts again ) , the girl turns out to be a con artist , swindles boy for his money , and heads for the hills . 
original sin then briefly tries to be a thriller . 
we see boy go whore-chasing , saying he wants to find girl and kill her . 
but as soon as boy actually finds girl , instead of following what might have been a promising ( or at least not completely fucking boring ) thriller , the film degenerates into the worst dissection of the virgin/whore complex since milk money . 
girl toys with the idea of reforming her con-girl past , all the while avoiding the " other man , " a lover that keeps making her start these scams in the first place . 
add insult to injury with some of the worst stylistic choices in cinematic history ( literally half of the film is either in slow motion or uses a strobe effect ) , and acting roughly the caliber of a b . b . gun , and original sin is one of the most torturous films of the summer , definitely front running to make my bottom ten of the year . 
don't even bother with original sin , but if you do go , be honest with yourself and admit its pure sex appeal . 
just keep in mind that although this film may not be the most original on the block , it's much worse than a sin . 
this is sacrilege . 
wizards is an animated feature that begins with a narration of epic proportions . 
over black and white drawings , we are told that the earth is destroyed in an apocalyptic nuclear exchange , sending the remnants of humanity through generations of radiation-induced mutation . 
the " original " inhabitants of the earth , fairies and elves , return to populate the globe , along with their evil , mutant counterparts . 
one day ( and i say " one day " not to be trite , but because that's exactly how it happened - no advance notice ) , a fairy queen gives birth to twins , one good and one evil . 
the twins grow up to be powerful wizards , the good one embracing magic , and the bad one utilizing technology to attempt to expand his evil empire . 
we are given the notion that an ultimate battle must occur between the forces of magic and those of technology . 
as unoriginal as the premise is , i was still somewhat interested in how this story would play itself out . 
there's a lot you can do in an animated fantasy world , after all . 
i soon learned , however , that the fantasy was the expectation of a decent film . 
once the transition was made from still art to color animation , an entirely different feel takes precedence . 
rather than the epic saga promised by the narration , we get a goofy-looking world of a saturday morning cartoon . 
not just the look , mind you , but all the zany sounds like >honk boing 
for years , blackwolf has lost his battles against the magical forces of good , since his armies of ogres and other mutants would get dispirited or distracted soon after battle is joined . 
however , blackwolf now has a secret weapon : nazis . 
yup , adolf hitler , the luftwaffe and the wehrmacht . 
okay , not the real things , but an archival film his minions dug up . 
projected into the sky for all to see , it inspires his own army while shocking the enemy into submission long enough for the ogres to hack them up . 
before you know it , there are dead elves everywhere . 
this is just as well . 
the characters are so bad that the viewer doesn't care about any of them . 
they're either silly , sappy , or both . 
the dialog gets much of the credit for this . 
an example is when avatar nonchalantly says , " well , looks like my brother and i begin our final battle . " 
not very formidable when he's also the guy who says , " this is the biggest bummer of a trip i've ever been on . " 
my favorite line was from a sideline fairy who is asked by her child why good can't fight back against the nazi-charged evil . 
her response is , " they have weapons and technology . 
we just have love . " 
suffice to say , the characters are strictly two-dimensional , and we therefore don't expect anything more than the obvious to happen . 
which it does . 
the only unexpected occurrence is the way the final battle between brothers is played out , which is anticlimactic and disappointing . 
please note that it is the action that is unexpected . 
that it is disappointing is not . 
the film couldn't settle on a particular mood . 
it seems to move from dark to light with the cuts from scene to scene and even angle to angle . 
scenes which are seemingly meant to contain deep meaning are ruined by acts of levity . 
the dramatics , which seem to occur at random , are overly staged and overly acted , detracting from any kind of value or even enjoyment which could otherwise be gleaned . 
ralph bakshi , the director , makes an obvious attempt to get a message across in this film : hitler and the nazis were bad . 
so who doesn't know this already ? 
well , maybe children . 
okay , so you might say that this is a movie for children . 
it's not . 
in the scenes where good fights evil , there's a lot of violence and gore that children should not be seeing if they're watching a cartoon . 
so is the film for adults ? 
if so , we probably don't need to be bashed over the head to get the point . 
why not have the bad guys be symbolic of the nazis instead of using old propaganda in a seriously disjointed attempt to show us something we already know ? 
wizards gives us a lot of footage of nazi tanks and airplanes , and hitler giving speeches . 
however , we don't see any reason why they should be considered bad . 
we see no atrocities being committed , not even any real battle footage . 
there is absolutely no connection made between the armies of evil and the third reich , and we're not even given a cursory explanation as to why this stuff is inspiring in the first place . 
this needed to be thought out much more thoroughly if a point were to be made , since subject matter such as this deserves better treatment . 
i'd like to assume that bakshi was trying to say that the same nationalist movement that drove the nazis could happen anywhere , at any time , and we must therefore be vigilant . 
however , i'm not sure if i want to give him that much credit . 
inspired by the 1958 film house on haunted hill starring vincent price . 
directed by william malone . 
starring geoffrey rush , famke janssen , and chris kattan . 
rated r ( contains violence , profanity , and brief nudity ) . 
synopsis : eccentric millionaire price offers $1 , 000 , 000 to each of his guests who appear at a gathering at a former sanitarium . 
the only catch is that they have to survive the night at the establishment , an establishment haunted by its former staff and patients . 
comments : house on haunted hill is based upon the original 1958 film of the same title directed by william castle and starring vincent price . 
in an obvious homage , the millionaire's name is price and he sports a thin mustache like price used to have . 
this is a pretty bad horror film , yet bad horror films sometimes are very entertaining , and house on haunted hill is just such a film . 
it is , surprisingly , better than another recent haunted house remake , the haunting , a film which owes its basis to the classic horror novel by shirley jackson . 
the haunting had literary pretensions and fell flat on it face . 
house on haunted hill owes its lineage to a b-movie 40 years old and makes no illusion that it's a crappy horror movie . 
thus , somehow , it proves slightly more successful . 
i can't think of another recent film which has had such an eclectic cast . 
it is this cast which lifts this ho-hum thriller into a borderline entertaining exercise in camp horror . 
price , the main character , is played by geoffrey rush , the academy-award winning actor of shine . 
rush seems to be making a downward spiral in the movie industry , a spiral reminiscent of ben ( ghandi , schindler's list ) kingsley's ridiculous appearance in the camp sci-fi classic species . 
i don't know why , but sometimes it's entertaining to see " quality " actors in bad movies . 
more surprises ? 
rising star taye diggs plays a stereotypical african american sports figure ( rather lamely too ) , and singer lisa loeb ( ! ) 
appears as a tv news reporter . 
the highlight of the cast , however , has to be saturday night live member chris kattan . 
kattan's comic sense provides several good humorous moments as he plays the hysterical proprietor of the former sanitarium . 
while the first half of the film leaves the audience guessing as to what's exactly going on , the second half dissolves into standard ghost story stuff and loses some of its suspense . 
a disappointingly cheesy ending really mars this movie too . 
house on haunted hill , i suspect , has just about left the second-run theaters . 
it's worth catching on cable next year , if you get a chance . 
if you have a choice , pick this movie over the haunting , it's the better of two evils , you could say . 
though , more appropriately perhaps , it'd be better to say that it's the better of two turkeys . 
capsule : liebes meets tod . 
this was a film about sex and death . 
a morgue attendant accidentally revives a dead woman through necrophilia and brings her into his world which is heavy on orgies . 
this film says something obscure about the relationship of sex and death , but imparts no insights . 
to make matter worse this print was poorly subtitled into english from french . 
0 ( -4 to +4 ) 
- an attractive 18-year-old dies on a disco floor and gets sent to a morgue . 
one of the attendants , ben ( jean-marc barr ) is so attracted by her that he attempts necrophilia . 
we see him crawling away after a shock . 
in the middle of sex the dead teen has come back to life . 
- the morgue attendant was just adding a new form of sex to his collection of kinks . 
he was already part of a group that gets together for s/m sex . 
the revived teen , teresa ( elodie bouchez ) joins them . 
- moral dilemma of teresa's father . 
ben has abused his daughter's body , but in doing so has saved her life . 
- part of this opaque allegory is a man saved from suicide who joins in the sexual hijinx . 
also involved is a man in the final stages of dying of aids , a close friend of the morgue attendant . 
he does not get involved in the orgies . 
- the subtitles of our print were white , often on a white background making them often hard to read , but i don't think there was a whole lot of meaning there that was lost . 
- the title means " don't let me die on a sunday . " 
you know that a movie has issues when most everyone in the audience comes out laughing . . . and 
it's not a comedy ! 
and what a strange career path for director chuck russell . 
he starts his career off with a decent take on the " nightmare on elm street " series with his debut as director on installment number three . 
he follows that up with the blob the very next year , but waits another six years to do his next piece , a little film called the mask starring jim carrey , and then one more star vehicle in eraser two years after that . 
so then he thought , " let me wait another five years , get a weak script jammed with cliches and hope that jimmy smits and kim basinger could pull it out of its ashes " ? ! ? 
strange dude and one crappy flick . 
plot : a six-year old girl is believed to be some kind of mysterious prophet sent down from god . 
a satanic cult wants the girl to switch over to their side , while the girl's aunt wants to . . . well , 
save her from those damn devil worshippers ! 
enter one occult expert agent , plenty of bobo cops and lots of nuns praying , and you've just about got the gist of things here . 
critique : with plot holes the size of my ass , this movie barely squeezes any sense out of its clich ? -ridden plot , with wasted talent , cheezy effects , bad dialogue and unintentional laughs to boot . 
what's good about this movie ? 
well , rufus sewell is pretty fun to watch as the head of a creepy runaway children's shelter/satanist supreme , with seriously wicked eyes and just enough ham in his performance to go with all of the cheese lying around . 
the little girl is also pretty good but unfortunately her character doesn't really do all that much . 
and believe it or not , i was actually enjoying some of the film's first half hour , which starts off with some promise , but not before bonehead moves after bonehead moves from our protagonist , basinger , just drown the film's entire basis of believability . 
for some reason , it takes her more time than anyone to figure out that her niece is gifted , and even longer to figure out that every move that she makes . . . is 
a dumb one ! 
add that to the entire police force of incompetents , save for jimmy smits ( whose talent agent advised him that playing the exact same cop character from nypd blue would be a good career move ? 
at least change the clothes , jimmy ! ) , zero scares , zero thrills and even less actual drama , and you've got yourself a pretty bad movie . 
and why would respected actors like christina ricci and ian holm take bit parts in this movie ? 
did they owe the director a favor or something ? 
together , they barely have five minutes of screen time , but i suppose that ricci's hospital room scene might be worth a look for some of you horn-dogs . 
the worst part about this movie is its hilariously unbelievable ending , which features police officers coming up with the brilliant idea of " sneaking up " on a man's house , who they know to be guilty of a crime ! 
uuuhmm . . . how's 
about knocking on the door and arresting his sorry ass , officers ? ! 
anyway , i don't usually inscribe spoilers in my reviews but the stupidity of some of these characters is just too difficult to describe without validating it with solid idiotic proof ( and there was plenty to go around ) . 
and did basinger lose some of her acting " talent " during her hiatus from the profession after her 1997 oscar win ? 
difficult to say if it was her lines that were really bad , or if she just delivered them poorly . 
either way , little originality , very obvious computer effects , little thrills , little drama and very little entertainment value , certainly bestow the honor of one of the worst movies of the summer upon this film . 
but if you really don't mind a rehashed gobbledygook of various satanic and " kid " -based thrillers , and enjoy watching films that don't bring anything new to the table . . . well , 
drink some beers , smoke some beans and rent this video , because it may just be one of the funnier thrillers of the year . 
adam sandler vehicles are never anything special , but continue to make a load of money . 
which really goes to show the sad state of cinema today . 
while good comedies like rushmore , to choose a recent example , gets limited release and doesn't make a lot of money , big daddy got a huge release and has made a lot of cash . 
it's also nothing special and doesn't deserve the money it's making . 
but i digress . 
sandler plays sonny koufax , a unemployed new yorker with a seemingly low mental age . 
his girlfriend makes a ultimatum to him : either wise up and get responsible , or she's leaving him . 
by a strange set of events , koufax ends up with julian ( played by twins cole and dylan sprouse ) a five year old kid . 
after a failed attempt to impress his girlfriend with the child , koufax decides he wants to keep the child . 
however , social worker mr brooks ( mostel ) finds out that koufax isn't the real father and wants to take julian back . 
koufax along with his new girlfriend layla ( lauren adams ) fight to keep the child . 
big daddy really isn't that good . 
many of the jokes revolve around toilet humour , and supposedly we are meant to find julian and sonny peeing against a wall to be funny . 
there's the occasional good one liner , but these are usually strangely delivered wrong and lose most of the humour . 
the film , after all these silly gags , then suddenly turns sentimental , and this is where big daddy really goes from bad to hideous . 
the court scene at the end of the film is useless and unbelievable , and not helped by the soppy overacting . 
it's a poor attempt to win over the audience . 
adam sandler basically plays the same role he has in his last few films ( except the wedding singer . ) 
joey lauren adams is much , much better , and deserves a far better film than this trash . 
steve buscemi pops up in a funny cameo , and his scenes are pretty funny . 
rob schneider is also funny as a crazy delivery man . 
the two twins who play julian are o . k , they start out rather well , but then becoming annoying and brattish halfway through and finally turn 'all american' wholesome goodness at the end of the film , where the tear juice is turned up high . 
big daddy is really nothing special , and is not even worth it for a few chuckles . 
although it is actually well put together , with nice direction , good production design and even some montages , this professionalism can't help the fact that the script and characters are trash . 
big daddy is for die hard fans of sandler , and that's about it . 
deserves recognition for : making this relatively youthful critic feel extremely old and crotchety20 
capsule review : this is what feel-good family entertainment has morphed into in the 90's : an hour-and-a-half commercial , disguised as an unnecessary remake , in which the defining image is that of a grown man launching a volume of green protoplasmic goo out of his ass . 
 ( between this , rocketman , and george of the jungle , disney has recently eclipsed longtime champion troma as the studio most likely to include a fart joke in a film . ) 
as the absent-minded professor who invents the titular computer-generated goop , a listless robin williams manages the difficult task of making original lead fred macmurray seem sprightly . 
the only thing that made this film borderline tolerable for me is my newly-founded but firm belief that writer/producer john hughes is going to spend his eternal afterlife being conked in the noggin by all of the different blunt instruments he's used for comedic effect in films like this and the odious home alone series . 
take your kids to see boogie nights instead . 
any movie that kills emilio estevez off in the first fifteen minutes has something going for it . 
unfortunately , this and the familiar theme music are the only worthwhile things about mission impossible , directed by brian depalma . 
the first problem is that this film has absolutely no connection with the tv show whatsoever , aside from the music . 
the tv show was about an impossible mission force whose deft teamwork , orchestrated by jim phelps , allowed them to counfound evil dictators of mythic banana republics from inflicting their sordid schemes upon the world . 
teamwork was the key . 
this film is set up as a cross between james bond and depalma's " blow out , " where the john travolta character was the victim of real and imagined conspiracies from all directions . 
it was travolta's vulnerability that made that film so exciting and claustrophobic . 
in this film , tom cruise is basically omniscient ( believe that ? ) and so there's no fun going on here whatsoever . 
the story is about as contrived as contrived gets , and is full of holes . 
there are basically two memorable sequences : one involves breaking into a kubrickesque computer room -- a task that could have been made much easier had the characters a whit of common sense ( suffice it to say that the alarm system is disengaged when the computer operator is in the room ) ; the second involves a high-speed train , a helicopter , and the chunnel and does not have to be seen to be disbelieved . 
the actors are all miscast , especially emannuelle beart as jim phelps wife , who cannot act , and ving rhames as a computer hacker ( ! ) , who looks lost and embarrased to be in this movie . 
tom cruise is no james bond , and jon voight looks more like bobby " the brain " heenan than jim phelps . 
brian depalma's career has been bafflingly erratic . 
at his best , he beats hitchcock at his own game ( " blow out , " " carrie , " " body double " ) but this is not his best . 
the screenplay was partly written by robert towne , who wrote the best scenario of the seventies in " chinatown , " but this script is perfunctory at best , and terrrible at worst . 
the cinematography has a comic book red/blue emphasis , which is nice to look at , but the suspense sequences are all telegraphed and this movie even features the old " killer who talks too much before shooting thus giving the victim time to think of an escape " trick . 
please don't spend your money on this ; it'll only encourage hollywood to make more . 
movies based on video games , such as street fighter or mario bros . , have never generated much interest at the box office . 
but when the first mortal kombat movie came out in 1995 , it did surprisingly well . 
with a simple story , a pulsating soundtrack , and lots of awesomely choreographed fight scenes , the movie moved quickly and displayed lots of energy . 
it got my vote for 'the movie where i expected the least and got the most' . 
and , if you haven't had the opportunity , i would definitely recommend that you see it on video . 
in the world of mortal kombat , based on the popular arcade game , dark forces from outworld try to infiltrate earth's realm with the ulimate goal of total conquest and the destruction of humanity . 
the mortal kombat refers to a competition , fought by human mortals against outworld's minions , which if won , will guarantee earth's safety for another generation . 
mk2 picks up almost immediately after the humans return victoriously from competition . 
despite their victory , however , a gateway has somehow opened , and outworld continues in its quest to conquer earth . 
outworld's warriors include an impressive collection of fighters , including shao kahn , mintoro ( a centaur ) , sheeva ( a four-armed ogre ) , and sindel . 
earth's mortal warriors , under the leadership of the benevolent god , lord rayden , includes liu kang , princess kitana , sonya blade and jax , who must fight against outworld's forces . 
it's an easy enough premise , but unfortunately ( very unfortunately ) , the writers try to do too much with the movie . 
it is only a video game , after all , but the on-screen version tries to go beyond it's comic book boundaries by adding depth , a conceptualization of self-worth , and worst of all , a love story . 
this becomes very awkward , because all of the players are fighters and nothing more . 
they are likable and impressive when they are showcasing their martial arts and fighting skills , but look extremely awkward and uncomfortable when they are required to actually act . 
this becomes embarrassingly apparent , for example , as the movie tries to develop a romantic bond between liu kang and princess kitana . 
the original mk was smart in letting the players do what they do best . 
they spoke little , but fought a lot . 
thus , the movie was easy to digest . 
however , mk2 tries to give these players a certain amount of depth , an element that was lacking in the first movie , but the attempt here fails miserably . 
this uneasy feeling is readily apparent , for example , whenever you hear lord rayden speak . 
not only does he talk in riddles and offer enigmatic ( e . g . 
useless ) advice , but he speaks so slowly as if to simulate infinite wisdom . 
try reading this half as fast , and you'll hear what i mean . 
but the movie is not a complete fatality . 
fight scenes are well-choreographed , highlighted by terrific acrobatics and agility . 
and players of the game will be rewarded with the inclusion of practically every character from the video game , although their screen time amounts to nothing more than a cameo . 
even if you're not familiar with the video game , each fighter has their own costume and unique weaponry to easily differentiate themselves . 
but it's just too little of what movie-goers and especially fans of the game will expect . 
oddly , the inclusion of the human element actually pollutes the purity of the mortal kombat essence . 
and the poor acting results in a muddled movie that offers the viewing audience little chance for survival . 
 ( i am now talking very slowly as if to simulate infinite wisdom ) . 
rent the first one , but the sequel is for kombat fans only . 
if you don't think kevin kline in drag is funny , wait ? til you see will smith in drag-it's even less funny . 
by the time jim west ( smith ) disguised himself as a belly dancer to bail his captured comrade , artemus gordon ( kline ) , from the clutches of evil dr . loveless ( branagh ) , i was unequivocally bored by wild wild west , the new summer blockbuster from men in black director barry sonnenfeld . 
is the old west really a breeding ground for high comedy , anyway ? 
 ( if your answer is no , then you recall rustler's rhapsody or back to the future part iii ; if your answer is yes , you're thinking of blazing saddles , but that movie was a parody of the western genre , not a nineteenth century romp . ) 
1869 . jim west is a quick-draw lawman who teams up with brainiac federal agent gordon , under orders from president grant ( kline again , whose impression , for all we know , is dead-on ) , to apprehend legless loveless , the mad inventor who is plotting to divvy up the united states and sell it back to britain and spain . 
how will loveless accomplish this ? 
well , by hulking around the desert in an enormous , mechanical tarantula , of course . 
bosomy dance hall girl rita escobar ( hayek ) , whose scientist father was kidnapped by loveless , joins west and gordon on their gadget-filled train . 
 ( gordon first discovers rita in a cage , waiting to be rescued . ) 
racial politics obviously prevented the filmmakers from pairing dull rita romantically with west , despite the movie's " hip " attitude toward the black thing . 
 ( west automatically shoots anyone who calls him a " nigger " before that person can finish speaking the word . 
super . ) 
at any rate , i kept waiting for rita to say something humourous , but she's a walking dress-up toy . 
 ( her single comic moment is also the best shot of the film : she bashfully reveals bare bumcheeks through the peek-a-boo flap of her pyjamas . ) 
jim west is the role that finally stymied will smith , whose comic timing has always been hit or miss , as episodes of " the fresh prince of bel-air " demonstrate . 
smith's a better reactor than actor , which is why he was so thoroughly engaging in men in black-he didn't start out a hero . 
in wild wild west he's required to exude eastwood cool and amuse at the same time ( and from frame one ) , a difficult feat i'm not sure any living performer could pull off . 
smith is ill equipped , for example , to handle the moment in which jim west performs stand-up for some rednecks at his own hanging . 
what attracted sonnenfeld to this material ? 
this isn't the first time he has adapted a tv show for the big screen ( the addams family , anyone ? ) , but it's the first big stinker of his career as a director . 
wild wild west is poorly-paced bombast , full of doa gags ( ted levine shows up as a general who uses a gramophone horn for a hearing aid ; levine played buffalo bill in the silence of the lambs-he's too intense to get an intentional laugh ) , lousy special effects ( the bluescreening is amateurish-foregrounds are never proportionate to the backgrounds ) , and frequent illogic . 
 ( to wit , its ridiculous villain so badly wants jim west out of the way that he . . . drops 
him onto a steel platform to do battle with some generic , ugly henchmen , instead of shooting him at point blank rage with one of the many guns on board the tarantula . ) 
wild wild west's bright spots , such as the cool opening credits sequence , bai ling's all-too-brief appearance as a femme fatale , or the brilliant " his master's voice " joke , are all part of the film's first half , which is more clever and enjoyable , at least , than its second . 
when , towards what seemed like the end of wild wild west , gordon proposes the idea of building an airplane and west rejects it , there was a collective groan among audience members : it meant we were going to have to sit through another loud action sequence before gordon builds the glider , the invention of which would inevitably lead to the proverbial whiz-bang finale . 
if you have ever seen fox tv's special car chase programs , you'll have a good idea about the content of ronin , the new action " thriller " from director john frankenheimer . 
the film involves a mysterious briefcase , that several groups of terrorist want to get their hands on . 
an irish women , dierdre ( played by the truman show's natascha mcelhone ) , hires a group of mercenaries to assist her in getting the briefcase . 
among the people she hires are sam ( robert de niro ) , vincent ( jean reno ) , and gregor ( stellan skarsg ? rd from good will hunting ) . 
dierdre's groups assignment is too seize the briefcase while the current owners are transporting it . 
they accomplish this task , but a traitor is in the bunch and the briefcase is soon on the run again . 
the briefcase stays on the run , as the movie leads the viewer through several plot twists that are badly executed . 
the writer seemed to be attempting to make a smart action movie , but failed to understand that just because there are surprises , it doesn't add too the credibility of a senseless script . 
the plot twists get no reaction because they come at a time where no one cares what is going on , after the apparent climax of the film . 
but to add to the excitement , as i mentioned earlier , there are endless car chase scenes . 
they are unrealistic and fail to add anything to the story . 
don't get me wrong , i love car chases , but they were overdone and too long here . 
we never do find out what's in the briefcase , but i doubt anyone cares by the time they finish sitting through this two hour long attempted thriller . 
the happy bastard's quick movie review 
wild wild west 
a better name for this movie might've been " wild wild waste " . 
warner bros . , in an attempt to get their own men in black style of movie , had managed to lasso in some big names ( actor will smith and director barry sonnenfeld , the duo behind mib's success ) in order to get their own fourth of july blockbuster , a contemporary big-screen update to the classic western/sci-fi series the wild wild west starring robert conrad . 
but somehow , they ran into a problem along the way . 
they were so busy trying to fill specific roles that they forgot one in general that would've made all the difference- a story writer . 
wild wild west's story and script was compiled by six different people , rather than just the one who put the brilliant touches on men in black , ed solomon . 
if warner bros . had gotten him , the movie would've possibly been five times better than what it is . 
heck , ten times . 
as is , however , the story and screenplay is a mess , filled with dead laughs , enough racist and sex jokes to make even will cringe as he's performing them , and a complete lack of chemistry that made the tv show work so well . 
here's the story : us army member james west ( will smith ) teams up with creative genius artemus gordon ( kevin kline ) to take on a ruthless villain by the name of arliss loveless ( kenneth branagh ) , whose lower half was blown off during the civil war , leaving him to roll around in a steam-controlled wheelchair . 
they catch onto a plot of his involving a superweapon that can basically be considered an 80-foot tarantula ( although it looks bigger than that ) , hellbent on destroying anything in its path . 
as i said , the way the script unfolds is a complete mess . 
but the acting doesn't help either . 
kevin kline is miserable as gordon , failing to display even a smidgeon of care as he did in the 1985 western silverado . 
smith seems to be having a better time as west , although he's not nearly as charming as he was in mib . 
branagh goes excessively over the top as the villain , perhaps to the point where we can't even stand to look at him or his strange beard . 
and salma hayek is along for the ride to search for her missing father , but mostly she exists just for sexual attention . 
her acting is barely passable , but what a " breath of fresh ass " . 
director barry sonnenfeld isn't of great help either . 
even though he shows some good creativity at some points , his overall urgency for directing is lost . 
it's as if he feels he's directing a tv movie , a big no-no when you're helming what's supposed to be a big-screen hit . 
last but not least , there are huge gaps of logic that are just plain unacceptable . 
at one point , smith defies gravity when first boarding kline's train . 
he jumps on the back , gets launched straight up in the air , and somehow manages to land three cars ahead on the train- while it's still in motion ! 
also , he seems to be strangely comfortable talking about racism in front of a lynch mob , particularly considering the fact that his family was killed by the likes of such folks . 
last but not least , why is he still making kissing faces when he knows he's not kissing a woman as he's looking through a peephole at the enemy ? ! 
the only saving grace for wild wild west come mostly in the form of special effects . 
the huge mechanical spider is a technical marvel , very authentic looking and considerable to the creativity of the show . 
there's also a good sequence involving metal magnet neckbraces and spinning saw blades , but , again , a logic question comes into play regarding their polarity . 
i would say sit back and have a good time with wild wild west , but it really isn't possible . 
if the racist and sex jokes don't bother you , the performances will . 
if the performances don't bother you , the story will . 
if the story doesn't bother you , the racist and sex jokes will . 
there's no end to the vicious circle . 
go rent men in black instead and pretend smith and tommy lee jones are wearing cowboy hats . 
you'll have a better time . 
if you do go , keep an eye out for robert conrad in a role as president grant . 
i bet he wishes he were somewhere else . . . 
old soldiers never die , they just turn into cliches 
soldier a film review by michael redman copyright 1998 by michael redman 
the warrior and the lover are two personality aspects that find it difficult to exist in the same body . 
jungian archetypes , these two opposites need each other to create a whole , but it's difficult to integrate both . 
often we'll encounter lovers who think everything is just wonderful and , with the help of jung's magician , sit around imagining grand schemes . 
without the drive to manifest their plans , much less the wisdom to recognize the darkness , all they have are dreams . 
warriors on the other hand , are ready to go to war at the drop of a hat , and will do combat with every last bit of their energy . 
they don't care enough about anything to know what's worth fighting for : gladiators who live only for the battle . 
this dichotomy not only describes individuals that we all know , but can also illustrate societies . 
america during the late sixties was a conflict between old style cold warriors and the new hippie lovers . 
todd 3465 ( kurt russell ) is a living , breathing archetype . 
chosen from birth as a soldier , he is raised by the government to be a killing machine . 
his childhood is cruelty and competition . 
he is indoctrinated with the big rules . 
never question authority . 
winning is everything . 
strength beats knowledge . 
a veteran of numerous intergalactic wars , todd is 40 and he's obsolete . 
a new generation of genetically engineered soldiers are faster and stronger . 
left for dead after a test battle with the best of the new killers , caine 607 ( jason scott lee ) , he's unceremoniously dumped as trash on arcadia 234 , a garbage world . 
obviously our hero is still alive . 
he finds a group of shipwrecked settlers abandoned on the planet who nurse him back to health . 
when the peace-loving colonists get a good look at who todd is , they are afraid of him and he is exiled to live by himself amid the junk on an environmentally hostile world . 
they are the other good guys . 
these lovers find that they need a warrior when the military coincidentally chooses this world to conduct exercises for their improved human weapons . 
todd finds himself in the role of protector . 
what could have been a fascinating look at the roles played in our culture and the fears of an ultra-right wing future is ruined by turning the film into a cartoon . 
the effects are mostly second-rate explosions or jerky slow motion . 
the plot is old hat . 
we don't get even a glimpse at the society that created the soldiers . 
hardly anything makes sense . 
the film's science fares badly . 
with all the remarkable advances we've made in just 37 years ( the film takes place in 2036 ) , we're still stupid . 
after conquering the stars , for some reason we use vast amounts of energy to load up huge space ships with rubbish tote it to a landfill light years away . 
even stranger , the garbage barges appear to double as time machines . 
virtually all the trash is vintage 1960 . 
there is nothing in the story that is not predictable . 
the first thing that todd sees after coming back to life is sandra ( connie nielsen ) , the woman just a little too beautiful to be living in such harsh conditions who is taking care of him . 
it doesn't take a genius to foresee that her husband isn't going to be around much longer . 
is it a shock to find out that the film's climax is an unarmed battle between todd and caine ? 
who would you guess wins ? 
some of the scenes would work if this were a comedy . 
todd's first awakening of human emotion comes when he glimpses connie's nipple poking through her thin blouse . 
later as he sits by his lonely campfire , a tear rolls down his dramatically lighted cheek in slow motion . 
supposedly this clich ? isn't meant to be humorous . 
dastardly col . mekum ( jason isaacs ) with a pencil-thin mustache is as real as snidley whiplash . 
responsible for last year's quirky and visually enticing but problematic " the fifth element " , director paul anderson sees the film as " shane " in outer space . 
maybe , if shane were played by sylvester stallone in rambo mode . 
the movie doesn't even work as an action film . 
there is never a question as to the outcome . 
somehow the new superior soldiers don't prove much of a match for todd . 
the acting isn't anything to write home about . 
nielsen almost comes across as a real person but is soon relegated to a background victim . 
russell is buffed-up and does a credible job but it's not much of a challenge . 
uttering around 100 words during the film , mostly what todd does is hit things and stare grimly into space . 
gary busey as todd's commanding officer is completely wasted in his low-key role . 
everything blows up and occasionally it looks cool . 
sometimes the sets are impressive . 
unfortunately " occasionally " and " sometimes " don't make a film . 
most disappointing is that the screenplay is by david webb peoples who wrote " blade runner " , possibly the best science fiction movie ever made . 
sharp-eyed viewers will notice a few obscure references to that film . 
peoples says that this is not a " blade runner " sequel , but a " sidequel " that takes place in the same universe . 
although that may have been the intent in his original script , the result is more like a bad television series that the " blade runner " replicants watch to pass time . 
perhaps those artificial humans would find this entertaining . 
 ( michael redman has written this column for over 23 years and wants to wish everyone an appropriate halloween . . . whatever 
you'd like it to be . ) 
 " what is this , a homicide or a bad b-movie ? " 
that is the prophetic question asked by one of the leads in one of the early scenes of this movie . 
let me clear things up for you cupcake , this isn't a bad b-movie , it's a really bad b-movie . 
so bad , it's almost good . 
almost , but not quite . 
the movie starts off in the 1950's with space aliens sending a botched experiment down to earth . 
it is a bunch of slug-like creatures that kill people and take over their bodies . 
the slugs' first and only victim in the fifties is cryogenically frozen where he is of no danger to anybody . 
that is , until two loser university students unfreeze him in 1986 . 
he , and the slugs inside him , promptly begin wreaking havoc and turning more co-eds into slug zombies . 
a slightly crazed cop ( tom atkins ) and the requisite girl with the face of an angel ( jill whitlow ) join these two geeky university students ( jason lively and steve marshall ) to do battle with the slugs . 
it more or less falls on the four of them to make the world safe again from the evil slugs . 
the acting is bad with a capital b . the story is worse . 
and the special effects are somewhere between an old rerun of star trek and what you see in a home movie . 
the only saving grace was the requisite tit-shot courtesy of jill whitlow . 
it had absolutely nothing to do with the story -- but i liked it . 
actually , it was the high point of the movie for me . 
of course , that isn't really saying much . 
the story moves around in a hap hazard fashion . 
which gives it a leg up on some other horror films . 
unlike most movies of this genre , there actually is a story . 
not a great one , but it is there . 
this is one in a long line of movies from the 1980's that were thrown together to capitalize off the success of the friday the 13th , halloween and nightmare on elm street movies . 
you could randomly select a movie out of the horror section of you local video store and probably luck into something just as good if not better . 
but night of the creeps might make a nice addition to a b-movie horror marathon . 
just don't be too upset if you can't find it . 
you really won't be missing that much . 
there's a scene early on in " jawbreaker " where a character utters the unintentionally prophetic line , " that is * so * not funny " . 
how right she was . 
this pathetic tale of three high-schoolers who accidentally kill their best friend in a birthday kidnapping prank gone horribly awry is never even remotely funny . 
or fun . 
or original . 
not content with the too-obvious " heathers " heisting , the filmmakers proceed to lift freely from a staggering variety of sources , including " carrie " , " bride of frankenstein " , " blue velvet " , and even shaw's pygmalion , itself recently remade as " she's all that " . 
 " jawbreaker " is a pastiche , and not even an enjoyable one . 
i find it extremely telling that the most engaging part of the film is the credit sequence , a jawbreaker factory montage inexplicably backed by veruca salt's " volcano girls " ; serving as a blueprint for the rest of the film , the song has absolutely nothing to do with the footage we're watching . 
just close your eyes and pretend you're listening to an alt-rock station ; you won't be missing anything . 
the blame for a mess this big has to be spread around among the principals . 
rebecca gayheart , following roles in " scream 2 " and " urban legend " , should have known better than to take yet another role in yet another teen body count movie . 
pam grier has totally wasted any credibility she might have gotten from her role in quentin tarantino's " jackie brown " . 
and rose mcgowan should just quit acting . 
she has no charisma , no presence , and no acting skills other than rolling her eyes and looking disaffected . 
mcgowan manages to be upstaged by her real-life boyfriend , rocker marilyn manson , whose fifteen second role here is far more interesting than anything any of the " real " actors are doing . 
manson , sans trademark makeup & contact lenses , and with an obviously fake moustache , looks eerily like nicholas cage ; who woulda thunk it ? 
that crack about direction by committee wasn't merely a pithy sound-bite . 
stylistically , thematically & narratively , " jawbreaker " is all over the map , varying wildly in tone & content from scene to scene . 
though credited solely to writer/director darren stein , one gets the feeling that no two scenes here were actually guided by the same hands . 
if stein was indeed responsible for the whole of this atrocity , someone needs to get the man some drugs , pronto . 
prozac , lithium , kava , ritalin , something , anything . 
he's quite obviously in desperate need of chemical help . 
 " jawbreaker " is a monumental waste of effort and resources , and quite likely one of the single worst films i've ever seen . 
to call " jawbreaker " garbage would be to insult garbage . 
bad flicks for the rest of the year are safe ; i've already got my pick for worst film of '99 . 
 " jawbreaker " runs approximately 90 minutes , though it feels longer than " titanic " , and is rated r for language , sexual situations and graphic violence . 
not recommended for kids , teens , or anyone else . 
can you say " dated " ? 
you can if you've seen rosemary's baby which , like the exorcist , was a thrilling horror film in its time but seems boring and laughable in the decades that have passed since its original release . 
 " mystery science theater 3000 " has skewered the bad films of the past , but let me tell you , it could do a number on the " good " ones too . 
rosemary's baby stars mia farrow ( from the time she was actually good-looking ) as an innocent housewife and her not-so-innocent husband ( john cassavettes ) , an actor who takes an easy , albeit evil , road to success . 
it all seems so harmless in the beginning . 
mia and john move into an apartment where several past murders have been committed . 
 ( there's also a skull in the living room , but it's only for decoration . ) 
their elderly neighbors pop in for a housewarming . 
all's well for about the first hour of this slow-moving film , until mia eats some of the neighbors' chocolate mousse and passes out . 
when she comes to , she finds herself in a darkened room with a bunch of people yelling and dancing like savages and a big , evil man raping her -- a foreshadowing of her future life with woody allen . 
it seems like a dream and , when she finds herself pregnant , she almost forgets about it . 
and everyone's helping with the pregnancy . 
the neighbors have some wonderful vitamin potions for her to drink , a good-luck charm for her to wear around her neck , and the name of an obstetrician who's been in the business 66 . 6 
years . 
meanwhile , mia begins having chronic stomach pains and losing a lot of weight . 
before too long she looks just like the lead singer of the cranberries . 
that's when you know your health's failing . 
the only person in the movie who's the least bit suspicious of all this is an old friend ( maurice evans ) who calls mia up to give her the bad news -- and immediately falls into a coma . 
by about the two-hour mark i felt the same way . 
rosemary's baby is way too long , and leads up to a payoff that's about as boring and laughable as the rest of the movie . 
i guess someone put a spell on this movie . 
 " the 44 caliber killer has struck again . " 
starring john leguizamo , mira sorvino , adrian brody , jennifer esposito , michael rispoli , bebe neuwirth . 
rated r . 
summer of sam will be remembered as a waste of spike lee's abilities . 
lee is a great filmmaker , often exhibiting kinetic visual flair on par with brian depalma and martin scorsese and a storytelling ability comparable to steven spielberg . 
but here , he gets himself into a bind . 
his latest effort is a case of a director pretending he has something to say when in reality there is little of substance to absorb from his work . 
the summer of 1977 was an unusual summer in new york city . 
it was the hottest summer on record . 
to boot , new york's first serial killer was on the loose : calling himself the son of sam , david berkowitz killed 9 people in the new york area and frightened the whole city population . 
so it was understandable that when nyc was hit with a citywide blackout , people went berserk , causing billions of dollars in damage to the city . 
the movie's focus is on a group of twenty-somethings during that fateful summer : vinny ( john leguizamo ) , a club-hopping , adultrous hairdresser , his benevolent wife dionna ( mira sorvino , looking young ) , ritchie ( adrian brody ) , a punk who becomes an outcast as well as a son of sam suspect , a gang of small time mobsters and a few more minor characters . 
we follow them through their roller coaster lives , thrown out of whack even more by the recent killings . 
vinny and dionna have marital problems because vinny cheats and dionna tries to please him , make him stay faithful to her . 
ritchie gets shunned by his group of friends because he has started to become more and more " eccentric , " and has degenerated to the point of dancing in gay night clubs and making porno films with his girlfriend . 
tensions build and conflicts arise as the anniversary night of son of sam's first murder looms ; the night he promises he will strike again . 
a local gang with too much time on its hands makes a list detailing all of the people that its members think might be suspects . 
at the top of the list is ritchie . 
vinny , an unwilling part of the said group , is called upon to set a trap for his friend . 
as we watch these proceedings , some of which are painfully graphic , the dreaded " so what ? " 
question springs to mind . 
from the way this movie is made , i'd have guessed that spike lee was trying to tell us something , but as i searched deeper it became clear that there is very little there to find . 
lee touches on so much -- the media , the 70's punk scene , the details of the actual killings , as well as the characters' very personal dilemmas -- but he doesn't bring all of his topics together to form a coherent theme or make a discernible statement . 
all is not lost if a movie turns out to be hollow ; it can be a saving grace for the film to be enjoyable . 
too bad summer of sam doesn't get any help here . 
frankly , it's a bore , a redundant and repetitive two hour and twenty minute film that doesn't entertain beyond its first half hour . 
there is no suspense because the film refuses to be fully about the murders and little involving drama because the film is too muddled and its focus too vague . 
leguizamo's turn as vinnie is annoying and whiny . 
the script makes it clear that we're supposed to believe that his character is flawed , but still a good guy . 
you'd never guess from his performance . 
adrian brody and especially mira sorvino fare better . 
sorvino gives a riveting , touching performance in a banal movie ( i'm tempted to think that i liked her because nearly everything else around her was inane ) ; her character is affecting and her emotions true-to-heart . 
brody , too paints an effective portrait of a young guy desperate for attention who gets a little more than he bargained for . 
summer of sam has some superficial elements of a good film : it looks great , it has a few notable performances and i suppose it's pretty well directed , in a purely technical way . 
but it's also empty , pretentious and boring . 
like last year's the thin red line , it's a movie by a director who doesn't know what he wants to say but goes ahead and says it anyway . 
 ? 1999 eugene novikov&#137 ; 
wow , a film without any redeeming qualities whatsoever . 
i'm amazed that someone thought this was a story that must be told on screen . 
many blacks in hollywood complain that they are not nominated for awards based on their race . 
i think first they need to concentrate their energy on themselves , and stop making movies which makes them look like nothing more than sex-crazed buffoons . 
even i'm offended by it . 
bill bellamy is a " player " which means he sleeps with a lot of women and lies to them . 
what a pleasant main character . 
one day , his friends decide that they want to find out how to be a player . 
why they decide this " one day " i have no idea . 
how many years have they been friends and why all of a sudden would they want to learn ? 
anyway , bellamy agrees to teach , and his wonderful lesson to his friends consists of letting them ride in his car while he rides from house to house having sex with women . 
this is the bulk of the film folks , guys riding from house to house , one keeps getting out to have sex , while the others sit in the car . 
since russell simmons is producer , and since the official title of the film is " def jam's how to be a player " , i was ready to be jumping up and down and stomping my feet and beating the person next to me because of the comedy . 
amazingly , aside from gilbert gottfried's 90 seconds of screen time , there was no comedy in the film for me to express myself in such a manner . 
instead of jokes , there's just an endless stream of profanity and naked breasts ( and naked breasts aren't so bad , but naked breasts alone don't make a good movie ) . 
be sure to bring along your ebonics to english dictionary as well . 
gilbert gottfried's character serves as one in his very brief appearance , asking for explanations as to what is being said . 
they should have brought him along for the entire film . 
[r] 
bob the happy bastard's quickie review : 
the odd couple ii 
grumpy old men , it ain't . 
hell , my fellow americans , it ain't . 
walter matthau and jack lemmon team up again for an even more worn out vehicle than any of their films over the past few years . 
odd couple ii feels terribly generic , where in the first movie , made thirty one years ago , feels like a wonderful tale . 
that's like repackaging campbell's soup in a generic food can , really . 
how writer neil simon could've made such a horrible mistake in screen writing is beyond me . 
throughout the movie , i really didn't laugh once . 
honestly . 
i mean , there were dumb situations , yeah , like the cropduster who let these old geezers have it without any notice , but they just really didn't seem funny to me . 
and that car rolling off the cliff ? 
the only way i would've seen humor in that is if they were still in it . 
and the ending gets all super-mushy , too . 
in the final twenty minutes or so , lemmon meets a girl he thinks is the one , then loses her ; matthau talks to his son ( a wasted jonathan silverman ) about his amrriage to lemmon's daughter ; and , of course , lemmon and matthau have another roomie situation on their hands . 
ooh , i really gave a lot away there , i'm sure . 
consider it a hospitable gester , you won't waste your time renting this muck . 
the summer of 00' wasn't a very good one for devout cinephiles . 
it offered no blair witches or sixth senses ; the best big budget hollywood could do was an efficient x-men adaptation and a flawed but entertaining shaft update . 
nurse betty signals the unofficial end of that dreadful summer movie season and the commencement of a potentially brighter fall movie season , that battery-charging ( at least for critics who have to sit through every piece o' shit that moseys into multiplexes ) time of year when all those oscar contenders ( read : " quality " films ) compete for audiences . 
alas betty has the dubious distinction of being the first overpraised junk heap of the new season . 
it's also indie director neil labute's first attempt at something resembling a mainstream picture , and i'm sad to report it's a resounding failure ( at least on this web site ) , a mess that's as hopelessly saccharine as people have accused labute's previous films of being unrelentingly masochistic . 
i went in expecting something decent , for betty was gleefully praised , it's screenplay even winning an award at cannes , but i exited shaking my noggin in bewilderment . 
are critics so desperate for something unique that they're blind to how derivative the particular brand of " uniqueness " betty dolls out is ? 
for the first time labute is working from a script he has not written , and he seems unsure of how to handle the material . 
betty tries to be hip like pulp fiction ( this is another flick featuring a pair of strangely bright and articulate hit men ) , enchanting like the wizard of oz ( of which this film makes several allusions to ) and heartwarming like [stick in your favorite loveable misfit movie] , but by the end it left me cold with its calculated desperation . 
it's labute's half hearted attempt to make a crowd pleaser and he doesn't even seem to have half that heart in it . 
nurse betty concerns a soap opera addict , betty ( brilliantly played by renee zellweger ) , who witnesses the killing of her husband , del ( aaron eckhart playing the most casually loutish husband since richard benjamin in diary of a mad housewife ) by two hit men ( morgan freeman and chris rock ) . 
she happens to have her most beloved soap on in the background and somehow merges the two realities . 
she's blocked out her husband's death and thinks she's a character in her favorite soap , a reason to love . 
betty sets out on the road to la ( with some drugs unknowingly stashed in her car trunk ) searching for her soap boyfriend dr . david ravell ( greg kinnear ) while the two bickering hit men follow in not so close pursuit . 
the labute who birthed the extraordinary in the company of men , slipped a bit ( but not much ) with his sophomore effort , your friends and neighbors , then fell straight on his ass with bash , a play he penned that was recently aired on showtime . 
the play demonstrated no forward movement as an artist , only labute's persistence in wallowing in the horrid things " average " people do to each other , usually with out realizing how horrid they themselves are . 
in the play , paul rudd , as an obnoxious jock , delivers a monologue detailing how he once followed a gay man into a bathroom and beat him maybe to death , while his clueless girlfriend essentially regards his sadistic behaviors as something along the old maxim " boys will be boys " . 
another character , schlubby businessman reacts to the loss of his job by actually killing his own baby ! 
what was once so powerful about labute's work , the casual , nonchalant cruelty and selfishness ( often elements we all have in us amplified to a disgusting degree ) had become so over the top it was borderline comic . 
obviously , at this point , labute could use a dose of some different kind of material before he pigeon holes himself further , but nurse betty isn't it . 
he clearly has little passion for what he's doing here , instead replacing his mojo with strained quirks ( one of the hit men is a huge soap fan , and the character of betty would be little more than a one joke gimmick if zelllweger hadn't managed to transcend that ) tailor made to appeal to the widest possible audience . 
nearly every scene between chris rock and morgan freeman fatally slows the picture down , as the two are made to enact soft-boiled tarantino-esque dialogue . 
they evince little chemistry , with rock constantly in over the top rant mode , acting more like an angry comic than any thing resembling a hit man ( an occupation that's represented far too frequently in movies nowadays ) . 
i think rock is a great comic yet he hasn't been able to bring his feral intelligence to movies , whenever he acts , and no matter the part , it's like he's doing the damn chris rock show . 
surprisingly ( at least considering her work in me , myself and irene ) renee zellweger gives a revelatory performance , building on her baby faced , apple pie looks . 
that wide-open face and helium voiced earnestness suggests a little girl not fully grown into her thirty-year-old body . 
it's the best work she's ever done . 
freeman is effective as always , though his performance nonetheless suffers because it seems at odds with where the movie wants to take it . 
the actor plays the role in his usual calm , collected manner , though the flick tries to insinuate a symbolic kinship between his character and betty's , suggesting that both are controlled by their fantasies rather than reality . 
that's interesting but the movie doesn't do anything with it other than crash land the sub-theme into a labored speech in the midst of a badly staged gun battle . 
the film has good moments ( many of the scenes involving a very good greg kinnear , especially his confrontation with zellweger ) , an almost soothing , lyrical score ( and you know a movie's in trouble when the score sticks out as one of the best things about it ) but nothing jells , it's parts , good or bad , are so disparate as to be opposing . 
the film might have worked had it settled on being one type of film , a mainstream , female forrest gump or an oddball art film , but as both if it falls as flat as diet coke . 
betty's screenplay makes the mistake of relying too much on concurrence , without which betty wouldn't make any progress in the film . 
nurse betty is a film driven by coincidence rather than charter , like how betty becomes a nurse in the film , a job that she takes in order to get closer to her imaginary lover ; she happens to be at the hospital at the exact moment that a drive by shooting takes place and miraculously knows how to take care of the victim's wound because she happened to see how on tv , which leads to her being offered a room with the victim's girlfriend who eventually gets betty into a party where she meets kinnear ? ? ? a little too tidy , don'tcha think . 
betty has an interesting theme , though it doesn't even seem aware of this . 
the current state of tv has been leaning towards reality television what with the enormous success of survivor and moderate success of big brother , with more on the way . 
this is a film about a women so deluded as to think that her favorite soap opera is reality ( ironically real-life survivor sean kennif has taken a part as a doctor on the soap opera guiding light ) . 
instead of exploring this timely matter in a way relating to the current tv craze ( since the film does largely appear to be a satire of television , albeit one that would feel more appropriate in the '80s than the '00s ) , the film simply uses betty's delusions as a plot device to get her from point a to b . no progress is made and little is unearthed except that maybe labute could use a bit of rest and a lot of contemplation . 
what do you get when you rip-off good movies like woody allen's bananas and martin scorsese's after hours ? 
you'd think you'd get the best of both films . 
instead you get woo . 
falling in somewhere between def jam's how to be a player ( which was awful ) and booty call ( which was ok ) , woo is yet another in the embarassing genre of showing african-americans to be nothing more than sexual buffoons . 
the whole film plays out as a black version of after hours , as wild woman woo ( jada pinkett smith ) goes out on a blind date with straight-laced tim ( tommy davidson ) . 
mayhem follows them . 
for some unknown reason ( read : contrived screenplay ) davidson puts up with all of woo's antics for the entire night , which include her destroying his bathroom mirror , stealing things from his house , violently questioning him ( accusing and belittling him actually ) about previous girlfriends , causing a riot in an elegant restaurant , and other various infuriating things that any normal person wouldn't tolerate . 
but for the sake of this bad movie ? 
sure , why not ? 
there are a few chuckles in the film , the best being the scene swiped directly from bananas . 
in this case , davidson is running from thugs , gets into a subway car as the doors are closing , starts to taunt the thugs , then the doors open back up again . 
a good joke , but a stolen one . 
another chuckle is provided by billy dee williams' cameo as himself . 
movies like woo are seemingly released every three months or so , and not one of them has ever been a hit . 
woo won't be one either . 
so why was it made ? 
and more importantly , isn't there anyone else besides me who thinks these films are offensive ? 
everyone involved should really reconsider their careers at this point . 
[r] 
wild things is a way to steam up an otherwise dreary early spring day ? provided , of course , that you're the victim of a frontal lobotomy . 
there is , in fact , no doubt about who this motion picture is aimed at : movie-goers in their late teens and early twenties -- the most lucrative target group . 
this is film noir for the mtv generation : fast-paced , slick , flashy , gleefully mindless , and hollow to the core . 
wild things is easily one of the five dumbest movies to arrive in theaters during the first eleven weeks of 1998 . 
i've seen more convincing drama ( with nearly as much bare flesh ) on that pinnacle of narrative quality , baywatch . 
wild things wants to dupe viewers into thinking it's a thriller with a real story . 
what it is , however , is a series of increasingly- improbable and shockingly predictable plot twists . 
everything in between those serpentine moments is filler -- a flash of a breast , a spatter of blood , and some of the most idiotic dialogue this side of a steven seagal movie . 
the film tries so hard to surprise its audience that the twists end up being easy to guess -- just take a stab at the most unlikely thing to happen , and that will probably be it . 
using this approach , i was right three times and wrong only once . 
that's not a good average for a production that wants to keep viewers in the dark about what's around the next corner . 
the ad campaign uses two things to sell this movie : the hot , young cast and the old standby , sex . 
both have an abundance of screen time , although i'll admit that the film's erotic content is somewhat less impressive than i expected . 
nothing about wild things is exceptionally risqu ? . 
the soft-core sex sequences are generic , and don't generate much heat . 
the lesbian kisses can't hold a candle to those in bound . 
theresa russell and denise richards have only token topless appearances ( neve campbell , possessing an iron-clad " no nudity " clause in her contract , keeps her clothes more or less on ) . 
the film's greatest curiosity is a full frontal shot of kevin bacon climbing out of the shower . 
maybe a few girls will skip seeing a fully-clothed leonardo dicaprio for the thirteenth time in titanic to catch a glimpse of what kyra sedgwick ( mrs . 
kevin bacon ) is familiar with . 
the director of wild things is john mcnaughton , whose last effort was the finely-tuned psychological thriller , normal life . 
that movie featured copious sex , a pair of real characters , and a powerful script . 
it's difficult to believe that something this shallow could come from the same film maker . 
but i suppose we all need to put food on the table . 
mcnaughton appears to have completely lost his way here , in what is obviously a stab at mainstream success ( his previous wide-release picture , mad dog and glory , was a box-office disappointment ) . 
quick cuts and pretty sunrises can't even begin to cover up this movie's flaws . 
the main character ( and i use that term lightly , since no one in wild things shows more than an occasional flash of personality ) is sam lombardo ( matt dillon ) , a guidance counselor at florida's blue bay high school . 
a student , the deliciously curvaceous kelly van ryan ( denise richards ) , has a crush on him . 
one afternoon , she comes to his house to wash his car , and , when she leaves , her clothing is torn . 
after confessing to her mother ( theresa russell ) that she was raped , she goes to the police station , where she tells her story to detectives ray duquette ( kevin bacon ) and gloria perez ( daphne rubin-vega ) . 
they are skeptical about here claims until another girl , suzie toller ( neve campbell ) , comes forward with a similar tale . 
meanwhile , sam , convinced that he's being set up , goes to a shyster lawyer ( bill murray ) for help . 
the acting in wild things isn't very good , but none of the principals have much to work with . 
this is definitely not a character- based motion picture . 
not only does the ludicrous screenplay ignore the possibility that someone in the audience may have a triple-digit i . q . , but it doesn't bother to give any of the on-screen individuals even a hint of depth . 
the men and women populating the picture are there to look nice , but nothing more . 
matt dillon is given plenty of opportunities to flex his biceps . 
neve campbell gets to model the slutty look . 
denise richards strikes a fetching pose in a see-through , one-piece bathing suit . 
and nothing in the film gets a rise out of kevin bacon . 
the only one who's even remotely interesting is bill murray , and he seems to think he's in comedy , not a thriller ( maybe he's got the right idea ) . 
columbia pictures has specifically requested that critics not reveal the film's ending , which prompts the question : which ending do they want kept secret ? 
wild things has no less than three ( one occurs during the end credits , so stay seated ) , all of which are jaw-droppingly absurd -- a feat that joe eszterhas ( the writer of basic instinct and showgirls ) would be impressed by . 
thanks to jeffrey kimball's polished , kinetic cinematography , wild things always looks great , and george s . clinton's score keeps it pulsing and throbbing . 
but , no matter how shiny the superficial sheen is , this is still trash , and , like all garbage , it stinks . 
like a good action film should , " metro " has action that keeps you involved . 
some action films have action sequences that are so conventional , our attention is detracted and diverted by other thoughts . 
 " the ghost in the darkness , " which opened a few months ago , is a film that s action was so bland and uninvolving , it not only invited my thoughts to divert me , it nearly put me asleep . 
but " metro " is one of the best action films in a while . 
it is hip , sharp , nifty , and has nice little pieces of suspense and comedy . 
eddie murphy was in bad shape for a while . 
and this invites me to mention last year s " the nutty professor , " which was his blessed revival back to the position at which he used to be . 
 " metro " happens to be a lot better than any film in the " beverly hills cop " series . 
that is because " metro " takes itself seriously , but doesn t prevent itself from having a little fun . 
eddie murphy is at his best in the roles of responsible , and controlled people . 
the " beverly hills cop " movies all featured eddie as a reckless , wild cop , always crossing the line by just an inch . 
in " metro " he plays a hostage negotiator , so negotiation is his job , not his hobby or his preferred way out of trouble . 
his character in " metro " takes himself seriously . 
eddie murphy s mischievous trademark grin is hardly anywhere to be found in " metro , " and perhaps it is quite better off that way . 
murphy plays scott roper , and as i previously mentioned , he is a san francisco hostage negotiator . 
in the first tense situation in the film , we are introduced to roper s kind of work , as he tries to calm down a confused , unkempt young criminal who has taken captive the entire capacity of the san francisco bank he is holding up . 
murphy handles the scene seriously , without his usual happy-go-lucky , misfit humor . 
the film develops when its villain is established , and the villain here is the beguiling michael korda , a jewel thief , and murderer who likes to let cops know of his hostage fatalities by giving them the ear of the victim . 
 " metro " takes different twists and slight turns , and there is one great , virtuoso chase scene , involving the a cable car . 
cars flip . 
cars crash . 
cars turn over . 
and it is done so good in this film , i was reminded of " speed , " and the speeding bus that couldn t go under fifty mile per hour for very significant reasons . 
there are also some other good scenes in " metro " that a lot of films would rather choose not to have . 
scenes like the one with roper and his new partner are at the horse track roper is a gambler who knows all the tricks and roper teaches his partner a few little methods of betting and winning . 
of course , the writers tried to disguise the scene as being insignificant by having roper draw parallels between hostage negotiation and gambling . 
the scenes between roper and his girlfriend are nice , too . 
those are the scenes that make up " metro , " which is mainly about eddie murphy s maturing as a personality . 
the actor that i most enjoyed seeing in " metro " was michael rapaport , who plays roper s new partner , a lip-reading , book-skimming genius , and a master of observation . 
it was not the actor s presence that pleased me as much as the role he was cast in the role of a proclaimed genius . 
rapaport is an actor who i usually see in the role of the dimwit the really , really dopey dimwit . 
i hardly recognized him in " metro , " and it was quite a joy to be able to see him in a role like this i feel that i respect him more . 
there are two main types of villains in movies like this : the ones that are part of the story , and the ones that are devices . 
the villain in " metro " is no more than a device , but he is a darn good villain nonetheless . 
he is played by michael wincott , whose voice is pushed out in a abraded rasp , as if he smokes a cigarette between every take . 
wincott makes his villain , korda , as mean as could be , the classic type of villain who would push an old lady down a flight of stairs just for kicks , like richard widmark in " kiss of death . " 
and , in addition , wincott s physical appearance and mannerisms , in the film , actually reminded my of an arrogant friend i use to have , who is no longer on my good list . 
i liked " metro , " and i do not think would have worked with any other actor but eddie murphy . 
his past roles were the great ones but they were also a precursor to the maturing that would later take place , possibly from murphy s growing as a person , now having a family . 
 " metro " is a no-nonsense movie . 
it works as a buddy movie , which it does not overplay . 
it works as a dry comedy , which it does not overplay . 
it works as a suspense film , which it does not overplay . 
and it works as an action film , where it does have a tendency to occasionally go all-out . 
but who cares ? 
it still remains serious , and it does not overdo itself . 
oh , and there were plenty of explosions in " metro , " as well . 
how nice it was of the filmmakers to give us those . 
if there is one major objection i had to " metro " , it was the length , an area where a lot of action films seem to wear out their welcomes . 
 " metro " is a film that lasted a little too long , but it was still entertaining , and it gave me something to do while i waited for it to end . 
paul haynes " > 
capsule : dumb dud of an entry in the body heat sweepstakes , and now something of a landmark for having spawned a jillion clones . 
basic instinct's worst crime is that it's not just a bad movie , but in many ways , an incompetent one as well . 
it's stupid in itself , and stupid to think its audience is as stupid as it is . 
it's supposed to be a thriller , but the plot is dead on its feet , and ultimately arbitrary ; it's only put into the movie to jerk us around . 
it's also supposed to be sexy , but it's instead got the unpleasant rawness of a teenager showing younger kids his collections of dirty pictures . 
it's a ripoff . 
the story opens with a rock star being murdered while in the throes of orgasm . 
the biggest suspect is an authoress , catherine tramell ( sharon stone ) , who wrote a novel in which the murder was eerily presaged . 
or maybe it's the work of a copycat ? 
these and other plot threads get fed to the detective who's on the case ( michael douglas ) , who has a few problems himself . 
like we wonder if his elevator goes to the top floor . 
we can measure with a stopwatch the time from them setting eyes on each other to the moment they are doing the mattress dance . 
joe eszterhas has written the screenplay , and he uses a device that he used before in the much better jagged edge : the killer's identity is kept a secret until the movie's final shot . 
this isn't in itself a problem -- the problem is that up until that point , we've been given nothing to work with . 
every clue in the movie -- every clue -- is ambiguous . 
the whole thriller aspect of the movie is a shill . 
red herrings , dead plot threads , violence , and kinky sexuality litter the movie like potholes in manhattan streets . 
they add up to zip , because they're not happening to people we care about . 
douglas's character is foulmouthed and bitter and that's it ; stone's character has an iron-on smile that never changes ; the rest are forgettable . 
when we don't even have the luxury of giving a damn about anyone in the movie , who cares what happens in it ? 
especially with an ending that is not only unsatisfying , but in many ways inexplicable ? 
 ( a friend of mine once came up with a rule of thumb about movie characters : " if no one in the movie behaves like anyone you know , or would * care * to know , just leave ! " ) 
one of the nastier things about the movie is the way it treats lesbianism not as an integral part of someone's life , but as a kind of kink -- something to thrill men with . 
i despair whenever i encounter this kind of stupidity in mainstream entertainment ; are we still so culturally neanderthal that the only way to include something like that in a big-budget hollywood film is as a hefnerism ? 
capsule : gal is a 50s-ish london cockney gangster who has retired to spain . 
his old associates want him for one last job and send the vicious don to give him an offer he can't refuse . 
a standout performance by ben kingsley as don cannot save what is essentially a set of cliches recycled from old westerns . 
 , 0 ( -4 to +4 ) 
roger ebert asks in his review of sexy beast , " who would have guessed that the most savage mad-dog frothing gangster in recent movies would be played by . . . 
ben kingsley ? " 
my response would be that anyone who has seen alan arkin in wait until dark , henry fonda in once upon a time in the west , or anthony hopkins in the silence of the lambs should have guessed it . 
they should know that the way for a film to create a really creepy sociopath is cast someone who generally plays mild , sympathetic , or even ineffectual character roles . 
the same characteristics that make an actor seem gentle in most of his roles can work in his favor when a role calls for him to be fierce and vicious . 
that is the principle that works for kingsley in sexy beast . 
gary " gal " dove ( played by ray winstone ) has retired from a london career of crime and is living on a luxurious villa in spain . 
life has become a routine of sunning himself and relaxing . 
but his paradise is about to be shattered by a one-two-punch . 
the first punch is a boulder that comes rolling down the hill next to the villa . 
the second punch comes from gal's past . 
back in london gang boss teddy bass ( ian mcshane , tv's lovejoy ) is planning to break into a safety deposit room in a bank and he wants gal . 
he sends his most rabid henchman don logan ( ben kingsley ) to fetch gal . 
don will accept any decision gal makes from " yes " to " certainly . " 
however , if gal says " no " don will do whatever it takes to turn it into a yes including threatening guy's ex-porn- star wife deedee ( amanda redman ) . 
in the meantime don knows just how to get under everybody's skin . 
kingsley makes don a compact package of fury and nastiness . 
there are some serious problems in louis mellis's and david scinto's script that should have been caught before filming . 
when we see the actual crime we have no idea why gal was so important to its success . 
beyond an ability to use skin-diving gear , no special talents are required of him . 
any local hood could have done what gal is needed for . 
additionally the crime involves digging from a swimming pool to the bank vault , flooding the vault . 
no only could they have let the water out of the pool and avoided the complication altogether , but there is by far too much water to be accounted for by what was in the pool . 
in spite of the provocative title , the story is cliched and overly familiar . 
i know i have seen all the plot elements of sexy beast in old westerns like the law and jake wade . 
the story is usually of the reformed outlaw , a robert taylor type , who has hung up his guns and is trying for a life of peaceful respectability . 
the old gang , however , wants to do one more job with their old buddy and sends a rabid richard widmark type to go and git ? im . 
it is not a great plot . 
in sexy beast even the plot twists have gray beards . 
perhaps the film has a little more respectability because it was made not as a western but as a stylish british gangster film . 
it is an old plot dressed up to look new . 
if the plot is old , at least the style is creative . 
this is director jonathan glazer's first film , but he has reputedly done some notable tv ads for guinness stout . 
his style does have some unexpected touches including some very odd dream sequences . 
cinematographer ivan bird uses a lot of half lit scenes . 
we see one side of a person's faces . 
but the other side fades into the darkness , a sort of metaphor for the half-world these characters in-habit . 
half of everything that is happening is also kept hidden . 
we yanks will have a hard time with some of the dialog . 
at least in my theater it was difficult to make out the words with the quiet speaking , the heavy accents , and the cockney language . 
sexy beast is a very and familiar minor plot lent respectability in the us by being done in what is here a still somewhat novel genre , the london crime film . 
the plot may be new to british crime films , but it would be overly familiar as a western . 
further respectability comes from ben kingsley's high-powered performance . 
i give it a 4 on the 0 to 10 scale and a 0 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
synopsis : back-up quarterback moxxon becomes starting quarterback midway through his senior year of high school , even though he'd rather read " slaughterhouse five " than the playbook . 
evil football coach kilmer throws away moxxon's book , though , while the evil team physician injects painkillers into the players . 
in the meantime , moxxon's kid brother forms a cult , and a bubblegum-blond cheerleader smears whip cream on herself to seduce the new star quarterback . 
comments : since i usually review horror and science fiction films , i feel a little out of my league discussing this teen football movie . 
 ( pun intended . 
thank you ! ) 
varsity blues was produced by mtv , and it really shows . 
several extended scenes allow for a continual soundtrack of mediocre pop songs meant to appeal to the adolescent male audience this crap was intended for . 
the teenagers all have reasons for their melodramatic angst . 
the adults all have problems , of course , and , as one-dimensional characters , they are all fanatically obssessed with how their local high school football team performs . 
yes , this movie represents high school life in mtv-land . 
this is a land where your health teacher is also a part-time stripper , your ice cream store attendant girlfriend wears an egyptian ankh around her neck , your kid brother forms a " cute " cult , your football coach is an uncaring , obssessive madman , and your friends' lives consist of nothing but getting laid and driving around in cop cars naked . 
all you , as the main character , want to do , however , is read " slaughterhouse five " and attend brown university in the fall . 
well , at least this is a little more realistic than mtv's " the real world . " 
varsity blues stars james van der beek , this week's teen tv star making the leap to the big screen . 
he plays the hick moxxon adequately , though some of his emotional dialogue will make people chuckle . 
 ( " you dawn't own mah life ! " 
who would want to ? ) 
jon voight , the stock evil guy in countless other movies , is , surprise , the stock evil guy here . 
but is he really evil , or is he a product of society ? 
after all , everybody , young and old , in this movie has no life whatsoever and do nothing but obssess over high school football . 
maybe the pressures of the 90 screaming fans at the football field drove evil coach kilmer evil . 
the film's screenplay never answers this burning question . 
at times , iliff's story does show glimmers of touching or humorous scenes , but , before the audience gets their hopes up that there might be something redeeming in this movie , they get trashed with another lengthy party sequence or overwrought football game . 
the movie's pacing is slow , and the plot turns are mindnumbingly obvious from start to finish . 
i suppose i'm being a little hard on varsity blues . 
maybe i'm just a little miffed that i had to pay 3 bucks to see it , even though it was dollar night at the cinema . 
something about a request from the studio made the theater charge more money . 
i found the film oftentimes ludicrous and boring . 
three guys in front of us smuggled beer into the the theater . 
i wished i had thought of that . 
alcohol , lots of it , may have helped the viewing experience . 
susan granger's review of " american outlaws " ( warner bros . ) 
thomas edison's " the great train robbery " ( 1903 ) was the first western ever made and " jesse james under the black flag " ( 1923 ) first introduced the outlaw folk hero . 
now , more than 20 similarly-themed pictures later , jesse james and his notorious gang of outlaws ride again in a banal mtv spin on an american legend . 
the story begins as jesse ( charasmatic colin farrell ) and his brother frank ( gabriel macht ) , cole and scott younger ( scott caan , will mccormack ) and trusty comanche tom ( nathaniel arcand ) , after four years of fighting for the rebs in the civil war , return to liberty , missouri - only to discover union troops are occupying their hometown . 
and an avaricious east coast railroad baron , thaddeus rains ( harris yulin ) , is forcing farmers to sell their land at less than true value , aided by allan pinkerton ( timothy dalton ) and his infamous detectives who , back then , were just thugs who provided security . 
but when ma james ( kathy bates ) becomes one of their victims , jesse and the rest of the guys ( gregory smith , ty o'neal , joe stevens ) form the james-younger gang to wreak revenge by attacking the railroad's supply lines , sabotaging track and robbing the banks where the payroll is kept . 
plus there's romance - between jesse and a spunky hometown gal , lee mimms ( ali larter ) . 
working from a politically-correct , clich ? -drenched , sanitized and revisionist screenplay by roderick taylor and john rodgers , director les mayfield keeps the action fast-paced and goes for lightweight laughs when he can . 
the choppy editing hurts but russell boyd's cinematography , luke reichle's designer duds and trevor rabin's music lend authenticity . 
on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " american outlaws " is a galloping , formulaic 3 . 
it's the wild west re-visited as a date movie . 
dear god , this is a fantastically bad film ! 
regardless of what i say about knock off , you can't grasp its awfulness from my words . 
you have to see it and experience it for yourself . 
here's the kicker , though -- i suggest that you do so . 
yes , this is a bad film -- easily one of the most incompetent films of the year -- but it has a certain misguided charm that makes it a unique kind of disaster to endure . 
in fact , i enjoyed myself for most of its brief running time , despite the dreadful acting and a completely incomprehensible story . 
don't get me wrong : i'm not excusing knock off . 
it reaches an unacceptable level of badness ; it's so incoherent that i wonder if it was hacked up worse than the avengers was . 
it also features some truly terrible performances from lela rochon , michael wong , paul sorvino , and -- of course -- jean-claude van damme . 
it does , however , have the entertaining presence of rob schneider , and the excessively inventive and pretentious direction of tsui hark . 
as i watched it , i occasionally wondered if it was aware of its own awfulness . 
now , in retrospect , it seems clear that it wasn't , but it's still a fascinating kind of mess . 
i don't like writing plot descriptions ( it is , by far , the most boring part of writing a review ) , but , in this case , i'm off the hook : there is no way i could write an accurate synopsis for knock off . 
for the sake of comparison , i had no trouble understanding the usual suspects during my first viewing . 
i paid closer attention to knock off , and the only thing i am able to say about it is that van damme plays a dude named ray , and is accused by the cia ( i think ) of selling knock off products ( knock off products are , of course , products that look like name-brand materials but are generic and cheap ) . 
i don't know what any of this has to do with martial arts , but there are lots of martial arts in the film . 
ray is good at martial arts , so when he has to beat up bad guys , there's no problem . 
rob schneider plays his sidekick , although i had no idea who he really was by the end of the film . 
lela rochon is just some woman who accuses them of stuff , while paul sorvino is both the good guy and the bad guy at once ! 
in fact , every character goes through so many shifts from good to bad that the end provides absolutely no insight into what any of them really do . 
in that order , knock off is completely incoherent and makes absolutely no sense . 
but what a strange mess it is . 
it was written by stephen e . de souza , who also wrote die hard and 48 hours . 
can this be the same man ? 
i don't see how , unless , of course , huge chunks of the film have been removed for the sake of running time . 
knock off seems to have an interesting premise ( as far as action films go ) , but there's no semblance here . 
for instance , van damme is introduced , and then seconds later he's running a chariot race through the streets of hong kong . 
why ? 
who knows . 
what are the implications of this ? 
i have no idea . 
most action films abandon depth in favor of action , and this is normally a problem . 
knock off , however , is the first film that i would have preferred to see with all of the talky sequences cut . 
the acting is embarrassingly bad : rochon , in particular , delivers each of her lines with stiff and talentless insincerity . 
sorvino , in addition , deserves better than this . 
van damme is bad , but he's charming in that bad way , and so i can't say that he's hard to watch ( although i rarely understood what he was saying ) . 
the only exception is rob schneider , who is actually quite funny a lot of the time . 
tsui utilizes so many tricks that he makes john woo look tame by comparison . 
they're all pointless gimmicks though , such as shots of the inner-workings of a knock off running shoe . 
but his action scenes are never boring : one particular piece inside of a fruit factory ( a fruit factory ? ) is well-choreographed . 
lots of the scenes are pitched well to comedy , such as our heroes' first encounter with the rochon character . 
but did tsui know that his film is beyond ludicrous ? 
i hope he did , for the alternative is a frightening thought . 
knock off has the feel of a truly terrible exercise in camp mania . 
if it were boring , i'd give it zero stars . 
but it's not boring : it's loud and excessive and completely incoherent . 
it's also funny , even when it isn't meaning to be funny . 
a bad film that succeeds as entertainment doesn't deserve to be fully lambasted . 
i recognize knock off for its irrefutable badness , but i can't deny it's zany , useless charm . 
oh , i know , they're just action scenes looking desperately for a real story , but they're fun action scenes amongst a crowd of laughably inane concepts . 
it's fun to admire the awfulness of a film like this , but that doesn't excuse the fact that it is , indeed , awful . 
welcome to your oh-so typical sequel . 
it tries to be twice as big as it's predecessor , yet ends up twice as shallow . 
shallow . . . . hmm . . . now there's an idea . 
maybe if the ill-fated cruise liner in this movie had struck a shallow reef early on things may have turned out better . 
the first thing that struck me . . . and 
surprised me , was that the camera work ( for the opening sequence anyway ) was terrible . 
looked like the cameramen were drunk and kept tripping on their own feet . . . . . . very 
different to the original movie . 
the characters ? 
well , not many of the characters actually * had * characters , but here's a rundown . 
annie , who was the highlight of the the original , must have seriously banged her head in the train crash at the end of the first movie . 
why ? 
because something's got to account for her losing that many iq points . 
even though annie wasn't exactly a rocket scientist in speed , here some of her actions just make you want to beat your head against a wall . 
for instance , after successfully using a chainsaw to cut a hole in a door so that a group of people can escape noxious gases - she stands in the middle of the opening for about five minutes till someone reminds her that the people can't get ut till she get's the chainsaw out of their faces . . . . bang 
bang bang 
in point of fact sandra's character is turned into little more than one of those scantly dressed extras from hercules , who constantly has to be rescued . 
jason patric ? 
all i can say is bring back keanu . 
keanu reeves might have the emotional range of a tree stump . . . but 
that's one more tree stump than jason has . 
i don't think he changed facial expressions all movie - jason , smile for the cameras ! ! 
now frown ! . . . i said frown . . . . oh . . . you are . . . bang 
bang bang . . 
wooden just doesn't describe this guys performance , but it'll have to do . 
the bad guy . . . . . ahh . . . william 
dafoe - there's a bright move . 
how can you go wrong with the star from that acknowledged classic , body of evidence ? 
 ( yes , that is sarcasm ) . 
his wide eyed maniac of a character doesn't start out too bad . . . . but 
goes steadily downhill as the movie progresses . 
in the end he degenerates to chasing annie around for a hostage , even though he already has the money and can escape . . . . bang 
bang . 
though i'd like to give this movie a double thumbs down , there were some nice sequences . 
considering the movie cost over 100 million dollars - you'd hope there'd be at least a couple . 
the real eye-popper for me , even though it was given away in the trailer . . . . bang 
bang . . . . . was the sequence where the cruise liner sideswipes the oil tanker . 
this looks terrific and i was very surprised to hear that the cruise liner in it was . . . . completely 
computer generated ! 
wow . . . . i 
don't think i've ever seen a cg model look so real before . 
the sequence where jason patric in trying to disable the propellers from under the ship is also terrific , and the only time during the entire movie where you get that feeling of . . . . speed . 
this lack-of-speed problem affects many sequences . 
such as the oil tanker part . . . . . it was - " oh no , we're going to hit the oil tanker ! " , 
20 minutes later - " oh no , we're going to hit the oil tanker ! " 
20 min . . . . you 
get the point . 
this movie failed simply because it didn't live up to it's name . . . . there 
was very little feeling of speed . 
in the original movie , the lead characters had to make split second decisions to survive . . . . . in this movie it felt more like - " well people , we're gonna run into that there island in a few hours - i think i might stroll over to engineering and see if i can't turn off the engines . . . i'm 
passing the cafeteria on the way , can i get anybody anything ? " 
the ending of this movie really is terrible . 
even though it features what i've since found out is one of the most expensive sequences ever in a movie - it just doesn't work at all . 
the part where the liner crashes through the town looks very realistic , but . . . . surprise 
surprise - it just takes waaaaay too long . 
it seemed to go for 15 minutes before the ship finally stopped . 
one thing that struck me as extremely poor scriptiing was that as the ship crashes through the harbour and town , around 25 people are killed by the ship . . . . and 
there's only 15 or so people left on the ship . 
so when it stops safe and sound and the characters are all cheering - the audience is sitting back and thinking - " wait a sec . . . this is a happy moment because ? " 
bang bang 
then there was the dog . . . . . i 
almost fell out of my seat when i saw the bit with the dog dodging the falling debris . 
putting a dog in peril has become the ultimate hollywood cliche . . . . . . every 
movie seems to have a 'dog-in-danger' sequence - volcano , dante's peak , independence day , daylight , twister . 
lost world . . . . . . etc , 
etc . 
this movie is a perfect example of how not to make a sequel . 
director jan de bont should try watching the orignal movie and this one back-to-back and see if he realises where he went wrong . 
synopsis : the president of a company wants to test his self-appointed successor , who's psychotic , and thinks it's a great idea to spend a week with him and their wives in an isolated cabin a hundred miles from civilization with no dependable transportation or means of communication after a heavy snowfall . 
comments : tracks of a killer had a couple of strikes against it before i even began watching it . 
strike one was the fact that someone had scrawled the word garbage on the videotape's sticker in black marker ( not typically a good sign when you rent a film ) . 
strike two came while the previews played . 
did you ever get a sinking premonition about a movie's quality ( or lack thereof ) while watching the trailers that come before it ? 
well , the cheesy films being advertised before tracks of a killer were films that no one has ever heard of starring people no one knows , and they all looked bad ( definately not a good sign ) . 
tracks of a killer itself completed the strikeout . 
about the only positive thing this film had going for it was the fact that it sports some nice scenery . 
to be fair , the first half-hour or so promises at least a watchable thriller . 
wolf larson , who bears more than a passing resemblance to hugh grant , adequately plays the underling obviously set up as the killer of the film's title . 
james brolin and kelly lebrock seem equally adequate as the loving couple larson will later threaten . 
brolin's character , for some inexplicable reason , thinks its a great idea to spend some time in a cabin , practically isolated , with lebrock and larson , whom he's decided to test for the week before giving him full control of his company . 
by the time the characters arrive at the cabin , this film begins to become tedious . 
apparently , brolin's successor's test involves chopping wood for the fireplace and skiing , which don't seem like attributes necessary to run a business in the city . 
but , then again , what do i know about business ? 
i do think , though , that they should have invested in some better furniture for the cabin ; its beds and closets have a habit of just breaking at the slightest touch . 
larson's character accidently kills his own wife rather than the couple he wants to kill . 
this leaves the movie with an hour to go and only three characters , which really isn't enough to sustain it . 
the film's writer must have taken a cue from stephen king , as scenes from tracks of a killer seem lifted out of misery and gerald's game . 
larson and lebrock fight and torture each other ( the tables get turned a couple of times ) while brolin tramps around in the snow looking for help . 
some old guy's around too , just so the killer can add to his body count without killing the couple , who everyone knows will be alive at the end of the film . 
the old guy , however , miraculously survives his first death and appears later to be killed again by the killer in a scene so ludicrous it's worthy of a chuckle or two . 
outside of that chuckle , unfortunately , tracks of a killer will just bore you as the obvious plot is drawn out ad infinitum and the actors , for some reason , become increasing obnoxious . 
if you're in a video store and thinking about renting this turkey , don't . 
make tracks to a far superior suspense film , like misery . 
there should be a requirement that a potential viewer be under a certain film iq in order to see " mission to mars . " 
there are probably quite a few people who are going to enjoy it , and most of them will probably be those who have seen very few films of its kind . 
but there are those who will not , and those will most likely be people who have already seen one or more of the following movies : " 2001 : a space odyssey , " " armageddon , " " apollo 13 , " " the abyss , " " close encounters of the third kind , " " e . t . 
the extra-terrestrial , " " alien , " and " aliens . " 
why ? 
because there is not one original idea in " mission to mars . " 
all of it is cribbed from other films ( and in most cases , better films ) . 
if this is the sort of thing you don't mind , you might like the film . 
of course , there are other reasons not to like " mission to mars , " the main one being a script written by people who seem to assume their audience is filled with people who haven't used their brains in some time , and who don't intend to start during the film's running time . 
 " mission to mars " manages to be both stupid and boring at the same time . 
the plot , cribbed greatly from " 2001 , " concerns a team sent to mars , the first manned trip ever made to the red planet . 
luke graham ( don cheadle ) leads the team , jointly formed of americans and russians . 
the team encounters a mysterious monolith that emits a strange pulse ( this being nothing like the pulse-emitting monolith in " 2001 " -- that one was on the * moon * ) , but when they try to study it , a giant sand tornado comes out of the top and swallows them ( all except luke , who survives long enough to send a garbled message back to the rotating space station , which looks strangely like the rotating space station in " 2001 " ) . 
a rescue mission is planned with husband & wife team woody blake ( tim robbins ) and terri fisher ( connie nielsen ) , obligatory pilot with a troubled past jim mcconnell ( gary sinise ) , and extra crew member phil ohlmyer ( jerry o'connell ) along for the ride . 
after some zero-gravity dancing , they run into problems when one of their engines is blown , forcing them to attempt a desperate landing aboard a supply vessel . 
now stranded on mars with minimal supplies , the team must decide whether or not it can risk entering the monolith or if they should return home . 
after all , that monolith just might contain information about how life originated on earth . 
 " mission to mars " is one of those films that makes a critic wonder where to start when talking about all the things that are wrong with it , so let's start with one of the things that does work : director brian de palma manages to create some eerie tension in a few scenes during the middle of the film . 
that's it . 
everything else fails . 
the failure isn't de palma's fault ; he's working from an atrocious script . 
only during the sequence aboard the ship ( looking an awful lot like the jupiter vessel in " 2001 " ) where the rescue team's air begins running out and they must frantically search for the hole and patch it up does " mission to mars " come to life . 
a scene where they attempt to save a comrade floating away into space also provides some tension , until you realize that the entire danger/more danger/attempted rescue sequence has absolutely nothing to do with the rest of the film ; it's just a contrived way to generate thrilling scenes . 
take it out , and the plot isn't affected in any way . 
the sequence also suffers from a few plot holes ( as does the rest of the film ) : why is the ship's computer ( which sounds strangely like hal from , uh , " 2001 " ) able to detect a hole in the main chamber but not one in the engine ? 
why did tim robbins' character have to go outside the ship when the solution easily presented itself from inside ? 
shouldn't the astronauts be better trained to deal with a hull breach ? 
why are the characters such idiots ? 
because the script makes little attempt to properly develop them . 
all the " conflict " is clumsily delivered in excruciatingly obvious exposition in the opening scene ( which rips off orson welles and robert altman by utilizing a long opening tracking shot ) during which the characters repeatedly tell each other about things all of them should already know : " jim , it's too bad you can't go on this mission because you were determined 'psychologically inadequate' because your wife died right before you were to go on the mission together " -- does anyone really talk like this ? 
can't we find out these things in a less grating matter , like maybe in a flashback ? 
the whole film is like that . 
the filmmakers are not content to merely show us something and assume we know what's going on ; they must * tell * us exactly what we're looking at * every * time . 
sample dialogue from the film : ( shot of mars ) astronaut a : " look , there's mars " astronaut b : " you sure that's mars ? " 
astronaut a : " yeah , that's mars all right . " 
astronaut c : " hey , are you guys looking at mars ? " 
that exchange isn't actually in " mission to mars , " but i wouldn't be surprised if it were . 
for all their cribbing from kubrick , spielberg , james cameron , and even ron howard , the makers of this film haven't learned to do something all those directors did very well : show and don't tell . 
de palma used to know how , but seems to have forgotten . 
this is mentally-challenged filmmaking ; they assume the audience won't get what's going on , so they explain everything five times over . 
fourth-graders may appreciate this , but more learned viewers will have their intelligence insulted . 
the principal actors sleepwalk their way through " mission to mars , " never managing to do away with an apparent " i'm just here to get a paycheck " attitude . 
cheadle stumbles over his awkward lines . 
armin mueller-stahl manages to thoroughly embarrass himself in an unbilled cameo . 
robbins puts his game face on and phones in his standard " decent guy " performance . 
and sinise hams it up with " wistful " facial expressions while watching tapes of his dead wife ( played by kim delaney , who only has one scene during which she still manages to deliver some ridiculous dialogue in a heavy-handed monologue about the meaning of life ) , and especially during the stolen-from-no-less-than-three-movies ( a lollipop to whoever names them ) conclusion , which combines endless , obvious explanation and sub-par cgi effects with gagging sentimentality and is sure to alienate any viewers who had been enjoying the show up until then . 
and of course , these aliens from mars who facilitated the evolution of life on earth are entirely different from the aliens in " 2001 " who facilitated the evolution of life on earth ; those aliens were from an * unknown * world . 
it could be said that fans of brainless action films might enjoy " mission to mars , " but such a comment ignores the fact that the film is also incredibly slow-going . 
leisurely pacing might have helped a film with a little more substance to it , but all of the substance of " mission to mars " has been stolen from other films , and those other films dealt with their ideas in a much more thoughtful fashion and generally contained more engaging characters . 
supposedly we're intended to choke up when one character decides not to return home at the end of this one ( totally different from the one-character-decides-not-to-return ending of " armageddon " ) , but i suspect most people will either be laughing or groaning . 
me , i alternated between the two . 
there is only one good thing about the way " mission to mars " finally ends : the fact that the movie is over . 
underwater science fiction stays submerged 
sphere a film review by michael redman copyright 1998 by michael redman 
one of the most unpleasant experiences that can occur in a movie theater is when a cast of fine actors end up in a film that wastes their talents . 
you keep thinking what they might have accomplished with the time they squandered . 
psychologist norman goodman ( dustin hoffman ) is called to the middle of the pacific ocean to work with the survivors of a plane crash . 
when he arrives at the site , he discovers that there is no plane , but rather an enormous spacecraft that has been sitting 1 , 000 feet below the surface for almost 300 years . 
having written a paper for the bush administration on how to handle first contact , he is chosen to head up the team of scientists investigating the ship . 
his group as outlined in his report , consists of beth halperin ( sharon stone ) , a biochemist ; harry adams ( samuel l . jackson ) , a mathematician ; and ted fielding ( liev schreiber ) , an astrophysicist . 
unfortunately it turns out that the writing was a blow-off project for goodman who did it for the money and named his then-colleagues to the team . 
 " after all , " he explains , " who reads government documents ? " 
lead by harold barnes ( peter coyote ) , a top secret federal operative , the group descends to a mobile undersea headquarters set up next to the alien vessel . 
once there they stroll over , knock on the door and explore the still-operational ufo . 
discovering the surprising origin of the ship and the crew finds an astonishing gigantic golden liquid metal sphere . 
when adams enters the sphere , the weirdness unfolds . 
a storm rolls in on the surface and the team is forced to remain below just as an unseen presence begins to communicate through their computer . 
 " my name is jerry . 
i am happy " flashes across the screen . 
this is unsettling for the psychologist . 
 " what happens if jerry gets mad ? " he asks . 
barnes is more pragmatic : he needs a last name because he can't put in his report that they made contact with an alien named jerry . 
then the situation turns bad . 
deadly beasts appear from nowhere . 
a gang of jellyfish kills one of the navy personnel . 
lethal sea snakes attack goodman . 
a giant squid batters the habitat just as adams is reading " 20 , 000 leagues under the sea " . 
the suspicious scientists turn against each other . 
this has all the makings of a first-rate thinking man's science fiction film . 
however even the finest ingredients don't go very far in the hands of a chief who doesn't seem to care about his product . 
director barry levinson has churned out a mish-mosh that doesn't engage the audience beyond a few skillful suspense scenes . 
the first of the film zooms by as the situation and players are introduced without any characterization or justification . 
it's much like speed-reading a novel and realizing that you missed the nuances . 
it doesn't get any better when the action scenes begin . 
while the actors do an adequate job with their limited roles , the people are still flat . 
oddly they hardly have reactions when deaths occur around them . 
after adams experiences the interior of the sphere , no one bothers to ask him what happened . 
their history together is an intriguing plot device but is barely exploited . 
even goodman and halperin's ill-conceived affair when she was his student is just mentioned in passing . 
her psychotic tendencies are talked about but never convincing . 
there's a truism that items shown early in a movie must be used before the ending , but here they are far too obvious . 
when an emergency mini-sub is explained , you know what's going to happen . 
the movie affectations are nothing more than distracting . 
chapter headings that divide the movie have no function . 
the shaky camera work muddies already perplexing chaos . 
much of what goes on is confusing and difficult to follow . 
although some of the disorientation eventually is understandable , a great deal of it isn't . 
even a science fiction film must be internally consistent . 
there's too much here that doesn't make sense . 
are the manifestations real ? 
the jellyfish kill queen latifa ( in a throw-away role ) and the squid nearly destroys the outpost , but the bites of the fatal snakes have no effect . 
a scene in the sub suggests that it's illusion , but earlier episodes indicate that it's not . 
not everything has to be explained to death , but there are major questions that the film never answers . 
where the ship came from is clarified , but how it ended up on the ocean floor in 1709 is merely alluded to . 
even the enigmatic sphere is still mysterious when the credits roll . 
the climax is followed by 15 minutes of epilogue that does little but weaken the already labored tale . 
after pre-release audience testing , the actors were called back to re-shoot the ending . 
it's difficult to imagine how the original could have been worse . 
following the recent tradition of lengthy films , this weighs in at over two very long hours . 
the weak scenes could have been cut , but then there wouldn't have been much left . 
the movie was supposedly held up by effects work , but there's nothing special on the screen . 
we never even see the monstrous squid or the menacing storm . 
stealing from " alien " , " the abyss " and the disastrous " event horizon " , this film has learned nothing from them . 
remarkably levinson and hoffman's other currently showing film is " wag the dog " , a smart and entertaining piece of work . 
this one could have been titled the same sans one word . 
renowned hong kong action director tsui hark first teamed with jean-claude van damme on the action star's 1997 pairing with dennis rodman , _double_team_ , and managed to make what initially appeared to be a disaster into a slick , stylish , and somewhat diverting action timekiller . 
tsui continues to energetically pile on the visual razzle dazzle in his latest collaboration with the muscles from brussels , _knock_off_ , but this time around , style neither save a script that is at best ridiculous , and at worst incomprehensible ; nor hide a host of truly lousy performances . 
writer steven e . desouza's fairly straightforward plotline isn't as outre as _double_team_'s strange yarn involving a secret think tank/prison , but it makes about as much sense , which is little . 
van damme plays marcus ray , a hong kong-based sales rep for a jeans company ( ! ) who stumbles upon a russian terrorist scheme to implant powerful microchip-sized bombs in hk product exports to the u . s . --dolls , electronic equipment , and , yes , jeans . 
it's all part of some type of ransom scheme , but all i remember is--and i kid you not--graphics on a cia computer screen showing a map of the world , bombs detonating , and an hat-wearing figure on the other side of the world bursting out into laughter . . . 
 . . . which is what the crowd at the showing i attended spontaneously did throughout _knock_off_ . 
while all of van damme's films have its share of unintentional laughs , mostly due to the stiff acting " skills " of the physically agile van damme , _knock_off_ delivers more than usual ( though not as many as van damme's embarrassing directorial effort , 1996's _the_quest_ ) . 
a lot of the laughs are earned by some particularly painful lines by desouza : " i smoked that badass like a roman candle ! " 
and " entrepreneurship , babycakes ! " 
standing out among my favorites . 
but it is indeed the pathetic performances that provide the bulk of _knock_off_'s laughs . 
van damme is true to laughable form , perhaps even worse than usual . 
early scenes actually _require_ him to make funny with co-star rob schneider ( improbably cast as a deep cover cia agent posing as marcus's business partner ) , and the sight and sound of the still-heavily-accented van damme haplessly trying to drop punchlines is hilarious in the wrong way . 
even typically good actors are not immune to the bad acting bug . 
paul sorvino is unconvincing and terribly overwrought as schneider's cia superior ; and lela rochon , playing an investigator for the jeans company , spends the entire movie in perpetual snarl mode . 
in rochon's defense , though , her role requires her to do little more than display her toned legs , exquisite bone structure , and perky bosoms , the latter coming in handy for one key scene where she must fish for microbombs stuck in her ample cleavage . 
tsui picks up where he left off visually in _double_team_ , juicing up the proceedings with inventive camera work . 
here , though , tsui's visual razzle dazzle borders on over kill , coming off as desperate attempts to shield the inanity of the entire enterprise . 
for each nifty trick tsui pulls off , such as a recurring visual theme that has the camera literally going through the circuitry of electronic devices , there are others that are completely superfluous . 
this is especially disconcerting when the trick in question could be clever when used in the right context . 
for instance , one scene early on has marcus putting his hand in a box . 
as he puts his hand in , the same action is shown from an overhead camera angle in a rectangle at the corner of the screen . 
it's undoubtedly an interesting visual , but it would have been nice if its use actually amounted to something . 
the test of a van damme movie boils down to the action sequences , but surprisingly , those in _knock_off_ leave much to be desired . 
tsui does what he can to make something of them , employing freeze frames , blurred motion , and unconventional camera angles , but there is nothing fundamentally special about the fairly generic chase and fight sequences written by desouza . 
there isn't anything as preposterously amusing as the climactic tiger/land mine fight in _double_team_ , let alone anything remotely close to tsui's legendary hong kong works ( but that's a given going in ) . 
if tsui has any hope of approaching his countryman john woo's stateside success , he would do best to break free from van damme . . . 
before it's too late . 
if he continues his involvement with b-grade movies such as _knock_off_ , the respect he has from hk action fans will continue to diminish . . . 
that is , if it hasn't already disappeared entirely after this fiasco . 
upon first viewing of this movie , the phrases " been there " and " done that " come quickly to mind . 
spy hard manages to steal almost every joke from the zucker brothers films , the most popular of which are airplane and the naked gun series . 
stealing stuff can be profitable in this industry , but only when you steal the right stuff . 
what little plot there is involves dick steele , aka . 
agent wd-40 ( leslie nielsen ) trying to save the world from an almost deranged madman played by andy griffith . 
along the way to it goal ( goal ? ) , the film manages to spoof mainly the james bond type films , but also manages to hit on films such as home alone and sister act . 
the trick about spoofing is that you have to actually be funny , or at the least , satirical . 
spy hard achieves neither , as it borrows all of the wrong elements from the superior zucker brothers films . 
the " dick , the world is in danger . 
what is it ? 
well , it's a big roundish ball floating in space around the sun . . 
 ( i'm paraphrasing ) " type of exchange is used at least four times in the opening ten minutes of the film , each time getting progressively less funny . 
what they should have stolen were the background sight gags which were so effective in the zucker brother's films while writing their own dialogue . 
director rick friedberg focuses more on the mug shots of his actors ( especially nielsen , who can do this quite well ) than on the delivery and context of their lines , much of the time cutting the punchline short . 
the whole film seems to be in a race with itself to be over , as is evident in the final sequence , where there is no comedic denouement after the climax . 
as was usual in the zucker brothers films and in spy hard , the end credits tend to replace this by being out of context . 
one of the more amusing was , " captain of the enterprise . . . . . . james 
t . kirk " . 
overall , i thought this was a very weak effort . 
while all of the right films to spoof were chosen , they used none of the right spoofing methods . 
next time they should " spy " a little bit harder . 
 * * * * = excellent . 
one of a kind . 
must see . 
 * * * = entertaining . 
worth the price of admission . 
 * * = fair . 
nothing much special . 
 * = what were they thinking ? ? 
first impressions : critically , a close-to-awful film , but money-wise , it has been doing ( and will continue to do ) great . 
a sometimes-funny film that sags and lags and oftentimes gets boring . 
an orginal plot that grows old real fast . 
one of the only 90 minute films that i've gotten bored through . 
men in black has defied the odds . 
when i first saw that the flick was 89 minutes long , i thought maybe that this was a poor attempt at an independence day type film that just ran out of gas . 
however , i now realize that not only did men in black run out of gas , but the film in 90 minutes manages to show off a very original idea ( which summer audiences have embraced ) that becomes old about 25 minutes into the movie . 
tommy lee jones and will smith play two " government " agents who are responsible for keeping order in alien society . 
the ridiculous plot begins when an alien " bug " , played weirdly by vincent d'onofrio , who was so great in full metal jacket , lands on earth to retrieve a galaxy that's somewhere on " orion's belt . " 
anyway , the basic plot revolves around jones and smith to stop this bug from getting the galaxy , or a higher power will blow up the earth . 
the premise is ridulous , but that is not why i didn't like this film . 
i love original plots . 
this one had an original one . 
but director barry sonnenfeld did something to this film that ruined its plot : he made the film drag and also put in unncessary elements in it that are found in romance films . 
whenever i saw d'onofrio's bug stomp and eat people in the film , it got terribly boring after a while . 
while smith's wise-cracks did fill in the gaps , it wasn't enough . 
and also , i cannot believe the screenwriters elected to have a sub-plot where tommy lee jones missed his former lover because as an alien agent , they can't have contact with any humans really . 
and here i see jones , at a satellite computer , watching his lover plant the garden ? 
a sentimental moment in an alien movie ? 
nice try , but i don't think so . 
it doesn't work here . 
it just makes the movie even more ridiculous and even more boring : we don't only have aliens to worry about , but now we have jones's conscience . 
i came into the movie not wanting to see jones's conscience , but wanting to see a real action movie that had lots of aliens in it . 
maybe it's unfair that i partly judged this movie on what my expectations were . 
nevertheless , even though some parts are indeed funny , the plot in this movie grew old and boring -- quick . 
there are movies that pose a question in its first five minutes and spend the rest of the time trying to answer it . 
then there are movies that spend the whole time posing questions and try to answer it all in the last five minutes . 
writer-director john herzfeld's two days in the valley falls into the latter category . 
weaving together a grabbag of seemingly unrelated characters , herzfeld's tries very hard to keep the audience guessing with a altmanesque series of parallel stories . 
hitmen lee ( james spader ) and his partner dosmo ( danny aiello ) pop a guy in bed while leaving his drugged wife becky fox ( teri hatcher ) lying next to him showing the audience where on her behind she got nicely pricked . 
an understandeably shocked becky runs out of the house the next morning before hailing down a couple of vice cops , ( jeff daniels ) and wes ( eric stoltz ) . 
a murder is not vice territory , flirting with asian prostitues is , but wes would rather play inquisitive detective . 
meanwhile , washed-up director , teddy ( paul mazursky ) is about to end his life . 
but before he can do that , he must find a good home for his dog . 
enter nurse audrey ( marsha mason ) , who takes the dog and teddy for a ride . 
stuffy art dealer , allan hopper ( greg cruttwell ) has kidney stones . 
while struggling about his fancy house , he switches between moaning in self-pity and dropping condescending hints about his loyal secretary's ( glenne headly ) plain appearance . 
don't be surprised if you find yourself asking more than once just what the hell is going on . 
you might like that feeling of cluelessness . 
herzfeld does answer all the questions in the course of time and pieces it all rather neatly in the last five minutes . 
the jigsaw puzzle assembled isn't stunning by any means though . 
the characters lack the stature or moral complexity of altman's real-life heroes in short cuts , even though they are interesting and funny . 
funny , that is if you aren't comparing them to the likes of tarantino's pulp chcaracters . 
the tie-up is tidy but nowhere near the squeaky clean resolution of ( director's name ? 
guy who also did last seduction ) red rock west . 
two days isn't a bad movie but there isn't much else to it than the screenplay novelty of the linkage of seemingly unrelated characters . 
it'll keep you guessing alright but you won't remember the answers five minutes after the credits . 
the flying inkpot rating system : * wait for the tv2 broadcast . 
 * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha ! 
 * * * pretty good , bring a friend . 
 * * * * amazing , potent stuff . 
 * * * * * perfection . 
see it twice . 
warning : may contain slight mild spoilers . 
rated : r for intense violence/gore , some strong sexuality and language . 
starring : arnold schwarzeneggar , robin tunney , rod stieger , gabriel byrne . 
running time : 132 minutes 
we go into a movie theater , boom ! 
the lights go down , our hearts race , we go through ten minutes of preview and finally the movie we've been waiting to see for a long time comes on . 
we sit there , watch in disbelief that this movie is as bad as it is . 
why shouldn't i have know what i was getting myself into . 
again like this past summers hit " stigmata " , " end of days " may be worse . 
it's not like this is any kind of original idea , it just throws in some " rosemary's baby " , along with " the devil's advocate " a little " exorcist " and some " stigmata " here and there . 
whala you have " end of days " a movie that is extremely disappointing and by the previews made it look terrific . 
sadly but truly again like most recent films , all the good parts are in the trailers . 
the plot which is very confusing at times is also very ludicrous and the movie is destined to be a hit in the first weekend , and flop in the next . 
jericho cane ( arnold schwarzneggar in hit typical macho role ) is a cop who finds out that he is chosen to track down satan ( living in gabriel byrnes body ) and stop him from impregnating christine york ( robin tunney ) because if he does , and she gives birth all existence as we know it will cease to exist . 
he has to do this before it turns into the year 2000 , and strangely he's trying to fight him 5 minutes before 2000 comes . 
he seeks help from the catholic church and help from rod stieger ( in a terrific role ) and tries to save this girl leading to an ending that's satisfying , but turns into a typical action movie . 
that's pretty much it on plot . 
it does have the razzle and dazzle of a great action movie , and with the 100m dollar budget parts seem to show it , parts you have to wonder where all the money went . 
as for arnie ? 
good role , ok performance . 
i think since he is getting a little older he is held back a lot of his stunts . 
the thing that disappointed me was the fact that there was nothing to the film . 
in the trailers it looks like a good scary , action film and ends up being a boring , long and preposterous drama that leads into something else that leaves us with questions . 
gabriel byrnes ( who ironically played a priest in " stigmata " ) here plays satan and gives a good performance but again seems held back and not into his character . 
two years back al pacino gave a terrific performance in the fun " the devil's advocate " and here it seems like the idea of him is in the character also . 
robin tunney ( great performance as always ) plays satan's main person whom he wants to impregnate to carry his child . 
of course rod stieger gives another great performance which really isn't nothing new . 
the direction by peter hyams is at times a bit overblown , though not nearly as the visual style was in " stigmata " . 
here we are given great camera work , and some great scenes that are terrifically directed but sadly just don't work in this movie . 
the script written by andrew marlowe has a few witty lines , but again the movie is all style and no substance and by the ending finale climax i was ready to go home . 
only a few things work here and those are a few of the performances , the writing and visual style , but the storyline and the finished product don't work as well . 
the sad thing is that " end of days " had so many things going for it . 
the plot could have been more organized , the action scenes could have been more brainy and less mind-numbing . 
at times it seems like " armageddon " and started to get old and tiresome . 
hollywood is running out of ideas bad , and like i've always said before needs new ones . 
even with its 100m budget " end of days " is less than pleasing . 
in fact the 100m dollar budget is at least 30m over , and easily could have had a 70m budget . 
maybe i sound crazy , but i am really looking forward to the new exorcist film , and hope that they make it as good as the original . 
we need to get new ideas and stop recycling old ones just to make money at the box-office . 
we need to get more films like " the blair witch project " that could scare people to death , while people thinking well what exactly is scaring them and how do i know that it is in fact the blair witch . 
overblown effects , stupid and thin plot-line , good performances , disappointing . . . . umm 
yup those pretty much describe " end of days " . 
 " my name is jack carter , and you don't want to know me " says our brooding anti-hero ( sylvester stallone ) . 
take his advice ! 
to know this guy is as rewarding as being thrown over a terrace . 
and to watch this film is almost as painful . 
 " get carter " is a gloomy looking , unimaginative film that offers no joy . 
jack carter is as tough as tough guys come . 
he works out of vegas as a self-described 'financial adjuster' . 
explaining his duties , he says , " people make promises and break them . 
i help them remember . " 
he has a chiseled body full of tattoos . 
he has the weathered look indicative of a man who has seen his share of hard times . 
he speaks in a hushed but menacing tone of voice . 
in other words , this is sylvester stallone acting like . . . sylvester 
stallone . 
and like most of his previous roles , his character is a shallow , one-dimensional thug whose modus operandi is to talk tough , hassle a few hapless people , find out what he needs to know , and then dispense his own kind of justice . 
with the charisma of a pit bull , being tough is all that jack carter knows . 
yet , even tough guys know when to put family first . 
as the story begins , we learn that jack's little brother has died in a car accident . 
the police attribute it to heavy drinking . 
however , jack is suspicious , believing that he was 'taken out' . 
he takes a break from his vegas duties and tries to see if he can find the truth . 
as he pokes around , he runs into several lowlife characters . 
they include a shady business partner , a prostitute , a dweebish millionaire molded after bill gates , and an oily owner of a porn website . 
any one of them may know something about his brother's death . 
all of them have the means of carrying out the deed . 
but don't expect an exercise in sleuthing where well-placed clues lead carter to the truth . 
he's all brawn and no brains , so there are no epiphanies during his investigation . 
instead , he uses intimidation to muscle his way forward , cycling through this circle of suspects . 
flustered with his lack of progress , he cycles through them again and again . 
this all gets tiring fairly quickly . 
by the time the film launches into its final act , we're numb from its pedestrian pace . 
oddly , as a tough-guy thriller , it starves us for action . 
admittedly , there is one nifty chase sequence , but this is related to a tangential and needless plot ( carter's vegas ties send thugs to retrieve him ) . 
the story also fails to generate any kind of emotion . 
stallone has the personality of a slab of stone . 
and the look and feel of the film is perpetually downcast . 
the weather is constantly overcast or rainy . 
meanwhile , most shots take place at night , in dimly lit rooms , or in dark alleys . 
it's just impossible to get stirred about that kind of atmosphere . 
as a result , " get carter " amounts to nothing more than a flat thriller , bereft of clever moments and devoid of any excitement . 
you're better off leaving this guy alone . 
you would think that this film's dismal failure would be due to american filmmakers getting hold of a brilliant british comedy and " americanizing " it . 
you'd be wrong , since full blame can be placed on the very folks who wrote and created the series : rowan atkinson , robin driscoll , and richard curtis . 
should you ever happen to meet those chaps , do me a favor . 
grab them by the hair and yell really loudly in their ear , " what were you thinking ? ! 
have you ever heard the phrase 'if it ain't broke don't fix it' ? ! " 
then walk away . 
the film concerns mr . bean ( atkinson ) and his visit to america while escorting the painting of " whistler's mother " to an american buyer ( played by burt reynolds , in the type of bit part that his success in " boogie nights " should hopefully do away with ) . 
now how or why mr . bean is sent on this trip makes no sense , and i can't even describe how the film explains it . 
the point is that mr . bean comes to america and causes wacky trouble . 
problems problems problems , where to begin ? 
first , the score music from the tv show has been completely replaced by score that is either at times one note away from the score from " beetlejuice " or one note away from the score from " rob roy " . 
then , the song choices are totally uninspired . 
 " good vibrations " ? 
 " i love l . a . " ? 
wow , don't put any thought into that guys . 
also , bean makes way too much noise in the film . 
the character doesn't speak much , but in the series you really only heard the laughter of the audience , and maybe the occasional murmur from mr . bean . 
each episode was like a chaplin silent movie . 
in the film , bean is constantly moaning , grunting , whining , etc . it's annoying , and just plain wrong for the character . 
the main problem though is that it's just not funny . 
with each episode of the series there would be dozens of really great laughs crammed into less than 30 minutes . 
multiply that running time by three however , and the laughs steadily decrease . 
they even have the gaul to repeat jokes from the series . 
sad , and creatively lazy . 
as a series , " mr . bean " only ran for about 13 episodes or so . 
why on earth did atkinson and the gang decide it was time to completely rework everything ? 
13 half-hour episodes certainly hadn't exhausted all possible situations . 
all i can say positively for the film at this point is that it's almost appropriate for all ages , if it wasn't for a couple of scenes where it appears as though mr . bean is having sex with things . 
and even that isn't a very positive statement . 
please guys , go back to england and go back to television so you'll make me laugh again . 
[pg-13] 
robin williams has the rarest of gifts : the ability to rise above the most inept material and suffuse it with his irreverent style . 
overwhelmingly , his worst films are pleasantly diverting at worst and enjoyable at best ( with the notable exception of flubber ) . 
so when i , the one person who has refused to abandon him despite patch adams , tell you that not even williams can save his latest project , you know it's in trouble . 
jakob the liar is a confused , muddled little movie ; a generically " uplifting " film with a fundamental contradiction : the message it delivers is depressing as opposed to inspiring and the movie doesn't realize it . 
williams plays jakob haim , a jew imprisoned in a polish ghetto during world war ii . 
one night he wanders outside after curfew and is promptly sent to the office of a high-ranking german officer for his punishment . 
jakob gets off easy and he gets to hear approximately 30 seconds of a radio broadcast . 
the announcement ( in english , but punctuated by a triumphant " heil hitler ! " ) is that russian troops are only miles away from jakob's ghetto . 
liberation ! he thinks . 
the next day , jakob tells the news to his closest friend , a volatile prize fighter named misha ( liev schreiber ) , who despite being sworn to secrecy passes the message along . 
soon , it is a common assumption in the ghetto that jakob has a radio hidden in his home -- a crime punishable by death . 
this is absurdly false , but the more jakob tells the people of the ghetto this , the more convinced they become that he is abreast of the latest developments in the war that is to decide their fate . 
the danger , of course , is that the germans allegedly have informants throughout the ghetto , and rumors about the radio can get out and put jakob in great danger . 
in a curiously irrelevant subplot , jakob finds a 11-year old girl who has separated from her parents and decides to hide her in his small home . 
apparently he is afraid that she will be discovered , and goes to great length to make sure of that -- just why the idea frightens him is never made clear . 
he and the girl build an uninvolving , generic relationship that never goes anywhere and is as irrelevant at the end as it was in the beginning . 
the moral of the story is that hope is the best medicine . 
but jakob the liar forgets that the hope that jakob brings to his ghetto is false . 
such hope inevitably leads to expectations of its realization and when those expectations aren't met , the results are far worse than if there was no hope . 
that's the film's biggest detriment : it is based on a false assumption and thus comes off as painfully false . 
it's never moving because it doesn't give us anything to be moved by . 
jakob the liar fails to tug any heartstrings which destroys its purpose for existing . 
robin williams doesn't inject the film with life , as a matter of fact , he seems a little out of it , as if crippled by his fake accent . 
he is stragely unenthusiastic ; his character is one who spreads hope but his performance is lifeless , hopeless . 
not since good will hunting has he abandoned his signature style to this extent ; this isn't the robin williams we know and love . 
in good will hunting he became a serious actor and won an oscar for it . 
here , he is more of a wannabe serious actor ; an impostor . 
jakob the liar will be compared with last year's life is beautiful because it is being marketed as a " holocaust comedy " . 
it's not a comedy . 
it tries , sometimes , but it rarely works . 
is it a melodrama ? 
a war movie ? 
a character study ? 
no , no , and no . 
jakob the liar is the kind of movie that can't be placed into a category ; not because it covers so many different genres but because it fails at just about every one it attempts . 
say , tell me if you've seen this before : a crisis on-board a commercial airliner causes a stewardess to have to fly and land the plane herself . 
airport '97 anyone ? 
ray liotta is a psychotic serial killer being transported from new york to california on christmas eve . 
amazingly , on what would seemingly be a busy day of travel on one of the most flown routes , only about six other passengers are on the flight . 
anyway , they take off , liotta escapes and kills all the police and the pilots , and stewardess lauren holly locks herself in the cockpit to fly the plane . 
the story is beyond routine , the script is embarrassing ( at one point , this jumbo jet is flying completely upside down ) , the characters are worthless , and the performances are annoying . 
surprisingly , co-writer steven e . de souza actually wrote the first two " die hard " movies ! 
 " turbulence " takes place at christmas time , yet the film was released a few days after the holidays . 
brilliant marketing , as no one cares about anything having to do with christmas after december 26th . 
the studio knew they had a bomb , and purposely dumped it out when the fewest number of people would see it . 
[r] 
it should have been a classic . 
a great cast of respected supporting actors . 
an interesting premise of loser comic book characters . 
however , " mystery men " proved to be one of the great disappointments of 1999 . 
the jokes were bland and hackneyed from talents who have previously made audiences laugh with their unique rituals . 
the number of cliches and shallow characters made the film difficult to sit through seriously hurting its attempt of having a fast paced premise . 
the script tried to deliver a series of small jokes throughout the film but without a big laugh-out-loud joke and mediocre small jokes , it failed miserably at being entertaining at all . 
the jokes were not funny for a number of reasons . 
they had been used a number of times before in previous films , the best ones , which were mediocre to begin with , were ruined in the trailer , and the expectation of laughing at clever , unique gags from clever unique comedians when there were none to laugh at greatly damaged the film . 
 " mystery men " might have worked if it was an ensemble cast of newcomers trying to break into the business . 
but with veterans doing this kind of junk , it really questioned whether their other work was as funny as originally thought . 
thankfully most actors in this movie will appear in five other movies before the new year arrives to help viewers forget this little movie . 
the film follows a band of wannabe superheroes living in a wannabe gotham city who are ridiculed by their fellow citizens and villains because of their clumsiness and failure to save they day and capture the bad guy . 
the fact is these pathetic losers are not needed because their city already has a successful superhero , captain amazing , who has recently captured every evil-doer in the city . 
captain amazing ( played terribly by an uninspired greg kinnear ) , because of his success in the past , is worried that he will lose popularity . 
after freeing one of the most notorious bad guys in the city ( geoffrey rush , overacting just a bit too much ) to keep himself busy , things get out of hand when captain amazing is captured . 
it is up to the wannabe superheroes to save the day . 
by the time this section of the plot is finished , the interest for what happens ( if you haven't already figured it out ) is very low . 
there are very few scenes which catch the viewers complete attention . 
the first scene in the film , which shows the wannabes trying to save the day , feels like it was seriously edited down . 
right when it was beginning to become slightly funny seeing these actors get humiliated at an old folk's home by some masked goons , captain amazing comes in and saves the day ? or ruins the movie . 
instead of editing this scene , more editing should have been done in areas such as the unnecessary romance between mr . furious ( ben stiller ) and monica , a waitress ( claire forlani ) or the vast majority of the film , which is the heroes talking at a coffee table about how their day was . 
a simple rule : more silly action is needed in order to make a silly action movie work . 
another major problem with " mystery men " is that every actor in it seemed very uncomfortable and consequently gave terrible performances . 
the film depended on its cast to work fluently together , like a bunch of old friends working together in an amiable reunion . 
however , most characters seemed like they did not even want to be in this film or at least the script made it seem this way . 
to pull one of the actors in this film randomly out of a hat , paul reubens , who disappeared from acting to everyone's joy , returns here leaving very little to be impressed about . 
as a wannabe who uses flatulence for a weapon , all of his jokes must therefore be fart jokes . 
fart jokes that have all been heard before and will inevitably be heard again in future films thanks to the success of " american pie " and " there's something about mary . " 
 " mystery men " drags on towards the end to a point where anything else in the world is more entertaining . 
anyone with a brain knows each one of the heroes is going to be successful at their talent in the end and each one is going to contribute in a helpful way . 
so why continue to watch ? 
this film is far from a worthy guilty pleasure . 
 " mystery men " indeed does this and every time a character succeeds another one congratulates him and says " i knew you could do it ! " 
 " mystery men " fails in every category it attempts to pass . 
what makes this film so bad is that it had the potential to be wonderful and unforgettable . 
terrible acting , terrible script , and a terrible waste of time changes opinions about all of these actors . 
 " i'm unpredictable ! " 
an overexcited ben stiller shouts out . 
no ben , you're the complete opposite . 
in my review of " the spy who shagged me , " i postulated an unbreakable law of film physics : every time a sequel is as good as or better than the previous film in the series , it is followed by a third movie that is a bore . 
the cause is probably complacency ; a studio sighs with relief when part 2 lives up to expectations and figures part 3 is a sure thing . 
 " scream 3 " provides the latest proof of this rule . 
in los angeles production has begun on " stab 3 : return to woodsboro , " the most recent installment in the series of movies inspired by the murders surrounding sidney prescott ( neve campbell ) . 
however , life soon starts imitating art , and " stab " cast members turn up stabbed . 
smelling yet another book deal , gale weathers ( courteney cox arquette ) comes to the set to investigate and finds her ex-boyfriend dewey riley ( david arquette ) acting as a technical consultant and getting chummy with jennifer ( parker posey ) , the actress playing gale in " stab 3 . " elsewhere , our heroine sidney is living in hiding under an assumed name . 
 . 
 . 
until she gets a phone call from a familiar evil voice . 
the late randy meeks ( jamie kennedy ) makes a surprise guest appearance via video to explain the rules of a trilogy . 
he notes the third chapter in a trilogy has an overabundance of exposition and a huge backstory to contend with . 
indeed , " scream 3 " tries to link its murders back to the one that started it all , the murder of sidney's mother maureen before the beginning of the original " scream . " 
at the scene of each murder in " scream 3 , " the killer leaves a photo of sidney's mother maureen as a teenager in hollywood and even includes a note claiming to be her real killer . 
to find out who the killer is , our intrepid investigators have to uncover what happened during maureen's missing years when she was a starlet appearing in low-budget horror films . 
 ( even with that little information , you can probably already guess what the killer's relationship to sidney is ) . 
unlike its predecessors , " scream 3 " doesn't have the guts to even suggest that the central characters might be the killer . 
the characters we do suspect are all undeveloped , so that by the end we don't even care who the killer is . 
the jaded detective ( patrick dempsey ) ? 
the kinky producer ( lance henriksen ) ? 
the driven young director ( scott foley ) ? 
the ingenue ( emily mortimer ) ? 
the character who turns out to be the killer seems to be selected at random . 
wes craven supposedly filmed three different endings to keep the real one a secret , so it's quite possible the one in the final cut was randomly chosen . 
the series' trademark references to other horror films have become trite and obvious . 
possibly it's the absence of screenwriter kevin williamson , who penned the first two , or maybe it's that the hip ironic stance eventually consumes itself and a series that parodies film cliches eventually becomes a cliche . 
i groaned as an attack on sidney from the first " scream " was repeated moment-for-moment in the hollywood set of her home . 
at some point , referencing becomes just a means to cover up a poverty of new ideas . 
 " scream 3 " also continues the tradition of having an eclectic set of cameos and familiar faces in small roles . 
look for jenny mccarthy , carrie fisher , patrick warburton ( puddy from " seinfeld " ) , roger corman , and jason mewes and kevin smith ( as jay and silent bob ) to walk through at some point . 
all these bit players put forth more effort than the series' returning stars , who are probably saving their energy for the long post- " scream " job search . 
another prediction i made in a previous review has come to pass : more movies are copying " the blair witch project " 's web strategy . 
 " scream 3 " has three official websites that ( wink , wink ) pretend that the events of the movie are real and provide additional backstory information not covered in the movie . 
the sunrise studios site ( scream3 . com ) has trailers for other sunrise releases as well as the " latest 'stab 3' news . " 
there's also a gail weathers official site ( galeweathers . com ) and a sunrise sucks site that has more " stab " scandals the studio wants to cover up ( sunrisesucks . com ) . 
craven and company promise that this is the last installment in the " scream " series . 
while i hope that's true , i don't hold out much hope-horror movie series are even harder to kill than their monsters . 
there's a " halloween h2k " in the works , even though michael myers was beheaded in " h20 , " and a " freddy vs . jason " has been talked about for awhile , despite the fact that both characters were " killed off . " 
there's bound to be a " scream 4 " someday , even if it starts over with a new set of movie-star wannabes . 
bottom line : they should have called this one " yawn . " 
i want to be involved in show business one day . 
and i refuse to do any sequels to any movie i may make because i believe they only get worse . 
this movie proves it for me . 
i was a little worried about the last batman film , as i thought joel schumaccer , taking over from tim burton , would screw it up . 
i also assumed val kilmer would screw up as bruce wayne . 
they didn't . 
kilmer did a good job , and the cast was left to carry the movie , which they did ( even jim carrey as the riddler and i can't stand jim carrey ) , because schumaccer messed up the direction with his glitzy gotham and his awkward camera angles . 
this film is different . 
the cast is still impressive , but here , not only does schumaccer mess up with the direction ( he's one of those directors who's good with actors , terrible with camera angles ) , but writer akiva goldsmith doesn't really give an impressive cast anything to do . 
the cast is impressive : clooney is a surprisingly good wayne/batman , o'donnell is a crafty robin as usual , they could've casted somebody better as batgirl ( my friend likes neve campbell ) , but silverstone is not bad , and thurman is a good poison ivy . 
the major problem is schwarzenegger , who is a terrible freeze . 
his accent is so heavy , you can't understand what he says , and the trouble with action stars like him is they cannot act , and they know it , but they figure that if they flex their muscles , say a limited amount of stuff , and kill a bunch of guys , then they figure nobody'll notice . 
that's the trouble with me , * i * notice . 
schwarzenegger does not deserve billing over clooney , or as much money as he got for this , but hollywood thinks he does . 
patrick stewart was the person i'd heard that was considered to play freeze , and he would've been so much better . 
or sean connery , but not arnold " i'm not an actor , but i play one in real life " schwarzenegger . 
i realize that you must be a star to play a major role in a batman film , but it would've been nice if they'd casted a star that had talent for the role . 
akiva goldsmith's screenplay avoids some stuff that happens in a normal batman film . 
in a regular batman film , they'd concentrate on the relationship with the girlfriend a little more , but elle macpherson's julie madison is so limited here that we never get a real sense of who she is . 
there is talk of a fifth batman movie . 
my interest to see it is low , but i hope it's better than this . 
if you don't want to waste your time , rent any of the other batman movies from blockbuster . 
any other . 
for a movie with such deep religious and spiritual undertones , it is surprising to find the messenger : the story of joan of arc such an ungodly mess . 
in the early to mid 1400's , there was little in the way of spiritual light to be found shining from the heart of a man or woman . 
the church was a dismally dark and oppressive place . 
france was involved in " the hundred years war " against england . 
there was no strong political leadership in the country . 
morale was low , there being little hope for the future . 
it was within this setting that a young french girl began hearing " voices " and seeing " visions . " 
convinced that these were messages from god , she brazenly demanded to see the dauphin in order to deliver the message directly to him . 
the message : if he would give her an army to command , she would deliver to him the crown . 
he does . . . 
and she does . 
then , once seated on the throne , he abandons her to her english captors . 
director luc besson ( the fifth element ) may have co-wrote the script but he never appeared to have a proper handle on the material . 
the inconsistencies of the cast , the confusing blur of the violent battle scenes , the inappropriate musical score , and the lack of a vibrant life force at the center of the film adds up to a largely disappointing end product which is oftentimes unintentionally laughable . 
his biggest miscue was to cast his wife , milla jovovich ( the fifth element ) in the title role . 
ms . jovovich , looks spectacular as joan , clad in battle armor , astride a similarly protected horse . 
if looks were enough to fully convey a character , she would have been brilliant . 
since it isn't , she tried ( and failed ) to act the part . 
her joan is unbalanced , " inspiring " the troops merely by screaming stridently and waving her banner or sword over her head like a woman possessed . 
john malkovich ( being john malkovich ) fares a bit better as the dauphin , who joan would see on the throne as charles vii . 
an easily manipulated man , his weakness of character foreshadows the betrayal of joan which would lead to her death . 
faye dunaway ( the thomas crown affair ) gives a strong performance in minimal screen time as the dauphin's mother-in-law and chief advisor . 
the army under joan's command are comprised of comical figures , more stooges than soldiers . 
the one exception would be tcheky karyo ( la femme nikita ) as dunois , the man who was leading the attack prior to joan's arrival . 
trying to plan a systematic campaign , he sees his leadership authority negated by joan's insistence on following her " visions . " 
dustin hoffman ( sphere ) has a small inhuman role as joan's conscience which begins speaking to her while awaiting trial . 
dressed like cloaked monk , he leads her to doubt herself and her " revelations . " 
as well she should . 
scriptures do speak of revelation . 
god , via his gift of holy spirit , is able to communicate to men . 
three of the nine manifestations of holy spirit listed in 1 corinthians 12 deal with receiving revelation . 
they are : word of knowledge , word of wisdom , and discerning of spirits . 
even the scriptures themselves are a result of god giving revelation to his " holy men . . . 
who spake as they were moved by holy spirit ( i . e . 
by revelation . ) " 
but the scriptures also caution us : 
 " beloved , believe not every spirit , but try the spirits whether they are of god : because many false prophets are gone out into the world . " 
1 john 4 : 1 [kjv] 
joan's end , ( being burned at the stake at the age of 19 ) , the frenzy ( mob rule ) and blood lust her inspiration wrought , and the death , pain , or suffering which followed her campaign all point to a devilish influence rather than a godly one . 
while her conviction and intense believing remains an admirable quality , she was , as others have been before and since , misled by the spiritual master of deception . 
as a messenger , she was quite effective . 
she was just confused as to whose message she was carrying . 
possibly the years the most anticipated film and finally it arrives here in the uk . 
it smashed u . s box office office records in it's opening weekend and will no doubt do the same here . 
but is it any good ? 
in a word , no . 
i'll elaborate further . 
the story is as follows . 
apparently there were two islands with dinosaurs on . 
one where the dinos lived untouched by mankind and the other a tourist attraction which failed before it even opened . 
 ( see jurrasic park . ) 
imgen , the company that funded jurrasic park , want to reccover their losses by taking more dinos off the other island and move them to a new attraction in san diago . 
realizing what a bad idea this is , proffessor john hammond ( richard attenborough ) decides to send a team to document the dinosaurs , so as to rally public support to preserve the island . 
enter familiar mumbling man jeff goldblum who only agrees to go when told his girlfriend is already there . 
so , basically , what you have is this . 
two teams , one sent to catch and move some dinosaurs to the mainland and the other , trying to document them , being forced to work together , fighting for survival against the dinosaurs' firm intentions on eating them . 
a fairly good idea , however it's let down by one slight problem . 
it's crap . 
over two hours of chase scenes gets way too boring , way too quiclky . 
add to this a terrible script and some feeble attempts at some occasional characterisation and you end up very disinterested . 
it becomes background noise while your mind starts concentrating on things like , 'what's for tea ? ' and 'should you cut the lawn later ? ' 
 ( yes , you should ) . 
it's a shame then really , that spielberg has lowered himself into making what essentially is a blatant cash in , which adds practically nothing to the far superior jurrasic park . 
with only a few creative and genuinely tense scenes and fabulous c . g . i 
dinosaurs ( the t . rex's have to be seen to be believed ) , there is nothing else to recommend the lost world . 
a very dissapointing sequel , indeed . 
 " holy man " boasts a sweet , gentle , comic performance from an unusually subdued eddie murphy and a few moderately funny skits . 
unfortunately , to get to the good stuff you have to sit through a painfully long set-up , loads of tedious filler , interminable shots of jeff goldblum stammering and twitching , a superfluous romantic subplot and quite possibly the most annoying performance of robert loggia's career . 
if ever a movie screamed " wait for video so you can fast-forward through all the dull and annoying parts , " this is it . 
eddie murphy plays g , a robed nomadic pilgrim wandering the land enjoying the moment and spreading his spiritual message . 
a chance meeting with ricky hayman ( goldblum ) , a stressed-out executive of a home-shopping channel , and kate newell ( kelly preston ) , a no-nonsense media analyst , results in physical injury to g . quicker than you can say " the odd couple , " g ends up rooming with an extremely leery ricky . 
after some script gymnastics , g appears live on the air at the good buy shopping network , wreaking havoc on the cheesy product demonstrations , enraging network owner mr . mcbainbridge ( loggia ) , and becoming a national media sensation . 
 " holy man " attempts to be several things at once . 
it tries to satirize home shopping networks , but it's difficult to effectively make fun of something that is already a self-parody . 
the film attempts to teach us that collecting material possessions is merely a futile attempt to fill the spiritual holes in our hearts , but that's common knowledge already . 
 " holy man " also tries to present a story of redemption , as ricky hayman tries to decide whether to exploit g's good will to achieve financial security or do the right thing at the expense of his career . 
anyone want to place a wager on his final decision ? 
the one genuine asset in " holy man " is eddie murphy , who gives a charming performance , sharing love , good will and relevant advice to all those around him , while beaming his million dollar smile at just the right moments . 
murphy is delightful and the film takes off whenever he's onscreen . 
unfortunately , he's not onscreen enough . 
jeff goldblum gets the lion's share of screen time and his tired storyline weighs the proceedings down . 
as his potential love interest , kelly preston tries to brighten things up , but she transforms from an all-business media shark to an empathic softy far too quickly and the abrupt change reeks of contrivance . 
the other principal actor , robert loggia , wastes his talents in a one-note turn as a ruthless , screaming monster . 
structurally unsound and way too long , " holy man " is appealing when murphy is onscreen and dull when he isn't . 
instead of dropping your money at the theater for this trifle , wait until it hits video and fast-forward past everything except the murphy scenes . 
g suggests that we focus on enjoying the moment and that's the best way to do so . 
it's actually not so bad that dreamworks decided to release the love letter at about the same time as star wars episode i : the phantom menace , because this way less people will have to sit through this dreadful little comedy . 
and no , i really don't feel guilty about wishing this movie death at the box-office . 
really , i don't . 
not at all . 
the plot has been done before -- a mysterious , unaddressed love letter shows up in a small town , causing confusion for everyone who reads it . 
the center of the ensuing disaster is bookstore owner helen ( kate capshaw , and by the way , what is it with bookstore owner main characters ? 
in the past year and a half we've seen them in life is beautiful , you've got mail , this movie , and the upcoming notting hill ) , who finds the letter in between couch cushions in the bookstore . 
she immediately starts testing other people to see who it might be from , and comes to the ( incorrect ) conclusion that the author of the note is a young employee played by tom everett scott . 
he , reading the letter himself , assumes that she wrote it for him . 
after a while , they fall in love ( well , duh ) . 
kate feels guilty about getting in a relationship with someone more than twenty years younger than her , and she also feels guilty because at the same time she is also involved with the town fireman ( tom selleck ) . 
to add to her turmoil , her mother shows up ( blythe danner , who apparently must have had her daughter when she was about 9 ) and her trusted bookstore manager ( deadpan ellen degeneres ) quits . 
supporting characters aren't called supporting for nothing . 
their purpose isn't just to move the plot along , they're also supposed to give the storyline a backbone . 
to do this , they must exhibit at least marginal depth and must also be interesting . 
rarely can a movie work if it puts an interesting protagonist in the middle and surrounds her with hackneyed , dull , cardboard secondary characters , especially when at the core of the movie is the protagonist's various interactions with them . 
this is the love letter's damning error . 
capshaw's character is as good as i have seen present in recent romantic comedies , but the people that surround her are all either underwritten or purely one-dimensional . 
because of that , the love letter is awkward and insincere . 
even worse -- it's a bore . 
i liked capshaw and her helen , but everyone else is painfully fake , undermining the little drama or sexual tension that has the potential to exist . 
there is nothing particularly hilarious about all this either -- and besides degeneres' wisecracks , there's little that is even a little amusing . 
this is not a completely thoughtless film and director peter ho-sun chan does a good job of portraying helen's yearnings and various subtle complexities . 
but it's far from profound . 
there isn't a common theme running through the proceedings , thus the movie seems thoughtfully pointless . 
really , this is a harmless little movie ; it's far from an abomination and it's not torturous to sit through . 
but bad , it is . 
awful , it also is . 
the love letter is a failure , and an inane failure at that . 
 ? 1999 eugene novikov&#137 ; 
surrounded by hype , high hopes , and the promise of an over-the-top performance by clueless's brittany murphy , don't say a word looked full of promise . 
hell , when i hear that " i'll never tell " whisper on the tv commercial , goose bumps run up my spine . 
alas , word is filled with little but disappointment , a kooky mix of girl , interrupted and ransom , with michael douglas and company collecting a paycheck to plod through a vapid and dull kidnapping thriller . 
douglas stars as nathan conrad , renowned new york psychologist , devoted father of jessie conrad ( skye mccole bartusiak ) , and loving husband to aggie conrad ( famke janssen ) . 
after a gang of jewel thieves , headed by sean bean's koster , kidnaps his daughter , nathan is forced to extract from his new patient , the catatonic and violent elisabeth burrows ( murphy ) , the location of some hidden bank job booty that her father hid from the koster gang a decade ago . 
but with hard-nosed detective sandra cassidy ( jennifer esposito , doing her best j . lo impression ) tracking down koster and his gang of hoodlums , the stakes are raised as nathan races against the clock to crack the mystery of elisabeth's head in order to get the goods inside . 
the catch - nathan only has until five o'clock to solve the puzzle ! 
whoa , the suspense is almost too much . 
don't say a word loses the audience inside of 15 minutes . 
murphy looks and acts like linda blair from the exorcist during the first part of the movie , then turns around and reprises like her role from girl , interrupted . 
and the only real " crazy " to be found in the film is director gary fleder's ( things to do in denver when you're dead ) staggering use of flashback sequences . 
oliver platt , famke janssen , and even sean bean are decent actors , but the stuff they are given here -- such as a bedridden wife fighting off the token black guy with her crutch -- is insulting and demeaning . 
additionally , the use of the surveillance cameras and laptops to track nathan's every move is downright unbelievable . 
how do ex-cons fresh out of the big house afford all this equipment ? 
despite its flaws , don't say a word is surprisingly some of the best mainstream film you'll find this month -- and audiences will lap it up . 
americans love lukewarm , half-baked thrillers starring big names and accompanied by cheap thrills . 
someone get me my lithium ! 
some concepts seem patently hopeless from the beginning , a live-action version of mr . 
magoo being a prime example . 
the cartoon figure mr . magoo , the bumbling blind man , can be quite funny , but only in small doses and only within the confines of animated images . 
if you think naked gun star leslie nielsen is a dubious choice to play the role of the short guy who runs into walls , you are right , but there is an even more astonishing selection . 
for a director they tapped hong kong's stanley tong , whose resume consists mainly of a handful of movies featuring martial arts expert jackie chan . 
the story , such that there is one , is about a large , stolen ruby , which looks a woolworth reject . 
mr . magoo gets it and , of course , does not realize he has it . 
mayhem then ensues as the bad and the good guys chase each other with mr . magoo frequently oblivious to the fact that anyone is being chased . 
like home alone 3 but without any class , mr . 
magoo can only be described as painfully bad . 
fifteen minutes of it feels like an eternity . 
the movie's humor is pathetically lame , and the pacing is way off . 
when one is stuck in a theater for an hour and a half watching what claims to be a motion picture , one looks for some solace . 
mr . 
magoo provides only three such moments . 
the movie begins and ends with the classic cartoon version of the character , who exudes his usual charm . 
the only other saving grave in the movie itself is angus , the sweet little bulldog . 
angus demonstrates more genuine emotions and a wider acting range than any of the humans in the picture . 
finally , the ending credits contain outtakes of the movie , which have some of the genuineness and spontaneity that the movie badly lacked . 
rather than attempt to adapt mr . magoo to a non-cartoon movie , nielsen makes the strategic mistake of trying to literally be a human version of the cartoon . 
he has trouble sustaining the squinting eyes and the affected voice , and even when he does it comes off as awkwardly unfunny . 
my wife managed to get some sleep during the movie , but i was not so lucky . 
hopefully , this picture will force producers to think harder about which subjects have promise and which do not . 
mr . magoo runs 1 : 37 . 
it is rated pg for comic violence and would be acceptable for all ages . 
my son jeffrey , age 8 , said he thought the movie was good and really funny , but recommends you not choose it if you want an action movie . 
he said he liked home alone 3 much more . 
his friend maxim , age 9 , said that he thought it was good but very silly and parts did not make sense . 
his other friend nickolas , age 8 , said he'd give the movie * * * 1/2 , but that it was really silly . 
breakdown is an moderately entertaining , if underwhelming , thriller . 
kurt russell and kathleen quinlan play couple jeff and amy taylor , taking the scenic route to california through redneck country . 
however , while in the middle of nowhere , their jeep decides to break down , leaving them stranded . 
a friendly truck driver , warren ( walsh ) , offers to give them a lift to town . 
although jeff rejects the offer ( he wants to stay with his car ) , amy agrees , hops into warren's lorry , and promptly disappears . 
jeff wonders where the hell she is , and when he later catches up with warren and warren says he has never seen amy in his life , the plot thickens and jeff goes on a chase to find his wife . 
although comparisons can be made with this film to deliverance ( 1972 ) and the vanishing ( 1993 ) plot wise , the latter two are far superior character and script wise . 
kurt russell is o . k as jeff , although he can seemingly only pull of one expression , which is angry . 
throughout the whole film , he looks angry ( or just pissed off . ) 
quinlan is o . k again , but again she can only pull off one expression , which is looking dorky . 
throughout the whole film , she looks dorky . 
j . t walsh ( who , sadly , recently passed away ) is fine as warren ( who we soon find out is a kidnapper ) although his actual character is pretty weak , and not really menacing enough . 
the supporting cast do their best aswell , with rex linn as a doubting sheriff , and the other kidnappers . 
the story , written by first-timer jonathan mostow ( who also directs ) is o . k , if surprisingly familiar and sometimes extraordinarily stupid . 
some of the things the characters do in this movie is beyond the bounds of idiocy . 
there are some flaws with the plot also , as the characters do the complete opposite to logical ( presumably to keep the story 'exciting' ) and also the fact that the story just isn't strong enough to sustain the audience's attention . 
the picture moves along very slowly also . 
it almost threatens to drop dead . 
the picture does pick up towards the end , but by then it's too late . 
mostow directs the action sequences well enough , however . 
the film doesn't really come to a satisfying conclusion , either . 
the ending tries to be bleak , but just comes off annoying . 
breakdown could of been a far more enjoyable picture had it had a stronger cast and director . 
instead , it just turns out to be merely average . 
a missed opportunity . 
overall rating= review by david wilcock 
ugh . that about sums this movie up . 
just , ugh . 
the original godzilla movies are somewhat of a cult classic , and when reviewing the previous films , each film had a certain degree of intelligence . 
and that was the reason they found such an enviable cult following ; in spite of bad special effects , horrible dubbing , and a man in a lizard suit , they maintained a certain degree of . . . how to put this ? . . . 
dignity ? 
not quite the word i'm looking for . 
you understand , right ? 
and in 50 years , godzilla has maintained that degree of 'whatever' . 
leave it to america to screw the whole thing up . 
>from the 'geniuses' that brought us " independece day " , arguably the worst sci-fi movie of all time , to ruin whatever reputation godzilla had . 
while they do bring us eye-popping special effects that will amaze you , they lost what was at the center of all the original godzilla movies -- a storyline . 
summing up the movie is simple . 
heck , i can do it in one sentence : giant lizard attacks a giant city and a bunch of nobodies stop it . 
simple as that . 
matthew broderick stumbles over his lines , and it's hard to picture hank azaria in any role besides his classic dog-walking character on the television show " mad about you " . 
the dialogue seems to be improvized , almost as if there was no rehearsel done at all . 
i can see the scene on the set right now . 
 " all right ! 
we spent all of this money making big special effects , and we've gotta get this movie out by summer or it's going to bomb in our faces . 
so , you actors just say what ever comes to the top of your head , all right ? 
make up something , m'kay ? 
good . 
roll film ! ! " 
the special effects are enough to keep you interested through one viewing , and some of the cinemtography is well-done ( the scene with the black umbrellas comes to mind ) . 
still , an hour into it , you will become antsy , wondering how long they can drag it out . 
and drag it out they do ! ! 
i have to laugh . 
the slogan for the film is , " size does matter " . 
i think they cut this too short . 
it should read , " size does matter . 
acting does not . " 
ripe with explosions , mass death and really weird hairdos , tsui hark's " double team " must be the result of a tipsy hollywood power lunch that decided jean-claude van damme needs another notch on his bad movie-bedpost and nba superstar dennis rodman should have an acting career . 
actually , in " double team , " neither's performance is all that bad . 
i've always been the one critic to defend van damme -- he possesses a high charisma level that some genre stars ( namely steven seagal ) never aim for ; it's just that he's never made a movie so exuberantly witty since 1994's " timecop . " 
and rodman . . . 
well , he's pretty much rodman . 
he's extremely colorful , and therefore he pretty much fits his role to a t , even if the role is that of an ex-cia weapons expert . 
it's the story that needs some major work . 
van damme plays counter-terrorist operative jack quinn , who teams up with arms dealer yaz ( rodman ) to rub out deadly gangster stavros ( mickey rourke , all beefy and weird-looking ) in an antwerp amusement park . the job is botched when stavros' son gets killed in the gunfire , and quinn is taken off to an island known as " the colony " -- a think tank for soldiers " too valuable to kill " but " too dangerous to set free . " 
quinn escapes and tries to make it back home to his pregnant wife ( natacha lindinger ) , but stavros is out for revenge and kidnaps her . 
so , what's a kickboxing mercenary to do ? 
quinn looks up yaz and the two travel to rome so they can rescue the woman , kill stavros , save the world and do whatever else the screenplay requires them to do . 
with crazy , often eye-popping camera work by peter pau and rodman's lite brite locks , " double team " should be a mildly enjoyable guilty pleasure . 
but too much tries to happen in each frame , and the result is a movie that leaves you exhausted rather than exhilarated . 
the numerous action scenes are loud and headache-inducing and the frenetic pacing never slows down enough for us to care about what's going on in the movie . 
and much of what's going on is just wacky . 
there's a whole segment devoted to net-surfing monks that i have yet to figure out . 
and the climax finds quinn going head-to-head with a tiger in the roman coliseum while yaz circles them on a motorcycle , trying to avoid running over land mines and hold on to quinn's baby boy ( who's in a bomb equipped basket ) -- all this while stavros watches shirtless from the bleachers . 
did i mention " double team " is strange ? 
when it all comes down , this is just another rarely entertaining formula killathon , albeit one that feels no need to indulge in gratuitous profanity . 
rodman juices things up with his blatantly vibrant screen persona , though , leading up to a stunt where he kicks an opponent between the legs . 
but we didn't need " double team " to tell us he could do that , did we ? 
synopsis : a man whose lover , paris , was murdered agrees to test out an experimental virtual reality home unit system . 
the subject escapes from the real world and his current girlfriend , laura , and becomes addicted to virtual reality , which , due to a design flaw in his unit , recreates the dead paris . 
comments : virtual seduction , executive produced by roger corman and lance h . robbins , serves as a cheaply-made precursor to strange days , a far superior film . 
both movies deal with desperate men who have trouble relating to their current lovers because they are ( ab ) using technology to be with former lovers ( in strange days , the technology utilized recorded dreams rather than virtual reality ) . 
interestingly , both films also take place a couple of years from now during the turn of the new millenium , though strange days uses the setting far more effectively . 
this exemplifies the problem with virtual seduction . 
it's not bad for what it is : low-budget science fiction concerning the psychological dangers of virtual reality . 
unfortunately , it's been done before and since in much better films , a fact which ultimately leaves the sci-fi fan bored by this movie . 
virtual seduction has many faults ( one of them is the fact that the video inexplicably has its own trailer before it begins ) . 
the film's script explores the possibilities of virtual reality interestingly at first , but its treatment of the subject matter gets heavy-handed and wooden as the movie progresses . 
many important scenes seem too dark ; the lighting could have been improved significantly . 
the cast , a collection of veteran b-movie actors and sitcom regulars , do only a mediocre job in their roles . 
jeff fahey , of the original lawnmower man , convincingly , though unenergetically , plays the lead character . 
carrie genzel plays paris , the vr lover , but ami dolenz , as the current love interest , seems like a much more interesting and attractive character with a caring personality , which doesn't lend credence to the film's premise . 
meschach taylor , of the once popular designing women sitcom , adequately plays a scientist working on the project , but his performance isn't something to write home about either . 
virtual seduction is one of those harmless movies to which you could do some light manual labor and not mind having it on in the background . 
in other words , one could fold laundry while glancing up at it every now and then , but it's rather boring to just sit and watch . 
the movie is surprisingly not as violent as one expects from b-movies in this genre , but it is still an adult r-rated film due to sexual situations and a suicide attempt . 
this turkey , ultimately , isn't awful , but it's not particularly interesting or unique either . 
don't be seduced into watching this movie unless you've got several loads of laundry and nothing else to watch . 
yeah , yeah , the advertisements didn't even try to conceal the fact that this movie had only one hook - sex . 
neve campbell and starship trooper's denise richards getting it on ? 
ok ! 
yeah , it's a decent two minutes of film erotica , but even if that's your main interest in this film , there's plenty of cheeziness to sit thru in exchange for those two minutes . 
wild things does have a lot more to think about than you might expect however . 
nearly every single scene is a huge plot twist guaranteed to leave you guessing , or at least curious to see the next turn , throughout the entire movie . 
but this fast-paced , razor-sharp turning of events doesn't leave much time to enjoy the surprises . 
we start off in a high-class california high school where every student resembles a supermodel in the making . 
guidance counselor sam lombardo ( matt dillon ) seems to catch the eye of every student , particularly kelly van ryan ( richards ) , daughter of the locally prestigious family whose social status is about as high as their bank accounts . 
right off the bat , kelly is using every asset she has in an effort to seduce " mr . lombardo " . 
the fund-raiser car wash seems the opportune time , particularly when you wash your guidance counselor's jeep in all white clothes and take plenty of precautions to insure you'll be soaked from head to toe when you're done . 
on the weekend of the car wash , kelly's attempts at seduction fall flat , and when they do , she concocts the tale that sam in fact raped her that day . 
naturally sam is thrown into a state of panicked shock at these accusations . 
but the otherwise unsubstantial fabrications soon lead to a criminal trial when a low-class , marijuana smoking student by the name of suzie toller ( campbell ) comes forth with a near identical story , also involving her trusted guidance counselor . 
pitting himself against the communities most respected names and authoritarians , sam must prove his innocence thru the aid of his makeshift defense attorney , ken bowden , played by bill murray . 
yes , that bill murray ! 
sound like a good , complete movie ? 
yes , that alone could have been , but this is just the beginning . 
in fact , the trial is over about fifteen or twenty minutes into the film . 
it is merely used to launch the most twisted story of recent time . 
by the time the movie finishes , you will have gone thru every plot twist imaginable . 
unfortunately , with so much going on , you're not given enough time in one predicament to be as effectively shocked when a new twist comes about . 
this is just one way director john mcnaughton fails to make this movie as fun as it could've been . 
the 113 minutes fly by , and although it never feels underdeveloped , this pretzel of storytelling could've been much more richly realized had a slower pace been taken . 
the acting is incredibly reminiscent of fox prime-time soap operas , which no , is not a good thing . 
and it's not just campbell , who happens to hail from the prime-time fox soap " party of five " , but everyone suffers from heavily melodramatic overtones . 
dillon , who was so charming in his understated role in last year's in & out , gives the best performance , and murray's surprising appearance adds some comedic flare to the film . 
in fact , if the whole movie had been promoted as a subtle comedy , even if it was the exact same film , i would actually give it a better grade . 
that's how cheezy it comes off . 
but aside from these two , the rest offer nothing more than some good eye-full's . 
in the right hands , wild things could've been a wickedly delightful , scrumptiously twisted thriller , but instead we get juvenile overuses of profanity and some very laughable displays of acting . 
and what's up with these people passing as high school students ? 
i realize hollywood often casts older actors to play teenage roles , but when i realized it wasn't supposed to be a college they were at , i had to snicker . 
i won't lie - this is definitely a guilty pleasure . 
as corny as it is , it's got some interesting aspects and could deserve at least a " b " for effort . 
but if you just want to admire denise richards , go for last year's starship troopers , which was every bit as campy , but a million times better . 
of course , if seeing her breasts is your most important goal , you'll be right at home with wild things . 
perhaps the wildest thing of all is that somebody actually looked at this and thought it deserved to be in theaters . 
i was recently told that in china their had been strong protests against the release of red corner  and this is apparently because of the way it shows the injustice of many chinese laws . 
but if you ask me , the real truth of the matter is that the chinese critics association were determined not to punish the population into viewing richard gere running across rooftops in search for a fellow american . 
or more the point , anyone that allows him to bask in his own less-than-subtle presence . 
this is not an insult to gere , as i consider him to be a rather talented actor  but more the choice of character and responsibility of his role . 
if a film is solely about one person , the main actor must give a faultless performance in order for it to really work . 
although geres performance is in no way poorly acted , it is far from perfect  and i look forward to seeing him star with other talented actors that can reduce the need for him to carry a film by himself . 
this is where he truly belongs , and if you are reluctant to believe me than look no further that primal fear ( with the sensational edward norton ) , the jackal ( with bruce willis ) and pretty woman ( with the delightful julia roberts ) . 
in red corner gere plays classy lawyer jack moore , who is guilty of the same personality traits as his character martin vail in primal fear  bold and up front , who thinks he is three steps ahead of everybody else but is actually two steps behind . 
it is with invulnerability of both mental and physical kind that the character of moore is portrayed , which left me barracking for the chinese to haul his sorry ass into jail . 
it doesnt take long from the films beginning for jack moores charm to work on a pretty chinese lady , and in no time they are in bed together in a hotel room  drunk and cheerful . 
yet instead of a hangover , poor jack finds himself covered in blood and the chinese chick dead on a couch . 
he is arrested and hauled into a chinese prison . 
his cell , food and rights  all terrible . 
now trapped in a foreign land without adequate aid from the american embassy , lawyer shen yuelin ( bai ling ) defends his case by initially pleading guilty to the charge of murder . 
jack and shen argue about their countries different laws ; shen stating that they will shoot you in the back and charge the cost of the bullet to your family .  
as the plot thickens , scenes get progressively more ridiculous  ranging from richard gere running over rooftops in search of the us embassy to a scooby doo ending where the least expected but-you-knew-along criminal is discovered . 
red corner is one of those films where you sneer , laugh or vomit youre way through all of its minutes . 
what should have been a politically taunt thriller is little more than a pointless expedition to see how stressed out richard gere can act . 
this is not to say that the film does not have its moments  there are some tense court room scenes that are shrewdly created  telling the tale of foreign injustice and government corruption . 
but what they amount to spoils the effect of having them in the first place  perhaps this is why red corner is so frustrating to watch . 
if you look at the films overall concept fairly broadly , the basic idea is quite tangible . 
it is upon the films execution where the diminutive plot twists and developments fail to impress or innovate - the evidence that goes missing , the high powered officials shielding the truth and intolerable love angles have all been done so many times before . 
if that wasnt bad enough , red corners dialogue is purely laughable on many occasions . 
shen yuelin attempts to gain sympathy by reciting renaissance of a destitute relationship with her deceased father , whilst jack moore is eager to talk about chinese musical instruments when he could have been working on a plan to free himself . 
taking itself far too seriously , red corner is not half the film it intends to be . 
although it would have benefited from the help of a more valuable supporting cast , the films main fault is in the bizarre ( and often out of place ) way of unfolding a story which isnt that meritorious anyway . 
whilst richard gere still proves that has what it takes to be known as a decent actor , i would think twice before going to see him attempt to manage such a serious yet hollow drama again . 
martin vailwhere are you ? 
not so long ago , men by the names of peckinpah , ford , leone , and eastwood made westerns . 
real westerns . 
these were some of the best films of the twentieth century . 
those days are gone . 
now we have crap like wild wild west to pass for the western . 
and that record is not improved with the unbearable tale of american outlaws . 
outlaws is yet another re-telling of the jesse james legend , courtesy of b-movie king james g . robinson ( producer of such classics as wrongfully accused and chill factor ) . 
delayed since the spring , this version stars the irish hunka hunka burning love colin farrell ( the best part of schumacher's tigerland ) as the bad-ass jesse james . 
alas , any sense of his character has been left on the ranch , leaving us with only cute chicks like ali larter ( minus the whipped cream ) to watch . 
the spin this time around : fresh from serving as southern militiamen in the civil war , jesse james ( farrell ) , his brother frank ( gabriel macht ) , and his pal cole younger ( scott caan ) lay down their arms and head home to missouri to tend the family farms after the war has ended . 
but trouble is brewing in their small town of liberty when evil railroad baron thaddeus rains ( harris yulin ) and his cronies rollin parker ( terry o'quinn ) and allan pinkerton ( timothy dalton ) demand the boys turn over their lands to the railroads . 
the jameses and the youngers then join forces to fight the railroad -- by robbing banks up and down missouri , thus cutting off the railroad's financial surplus and playing robin hood to the local people . 
along the way , the boys squabble over who's the cutest of the gang , who's the most popular cowboy in the gang , and who ought to go on mtv's total request live . 
they rob numerous banks with identical interiors , always with the kindest of hearts , strutting in their grungy dusters as moby songs play in the background . 
the witty banter they share could be plastered within a hallmark card . 
the biggest disappointment here lies in the acting of colin farrell . 
after a great job in tigerland , farrell walks through this role easier then nicolas cage in gone in 60 seconds . 
and his american accent rivals richard gere's irish accent in the jackal . 
combined with feeling like bonanza : the teen years , this homogenized production ( toned down to get the ever-popular pg-13 rating ) gives us an invincible jesse james that quickly grows tiresome and boring . 
the unbearable villains courtesy of timothy dalton and thaddeus rains spend the entire film proclaiming that everyone should be hanged , sucking out any energy left in the film . 
not to mention : the real story of jesse james and his gang bears no resemblance to the plot of american outlaws . 
instead , the movie is full of old , outrageous tales about the wild west -- tales which went out of style in 5-cent magazines about a century ago . 
actually , i'm fairly sure the experience of having my flesh torn and mutilated by barbed wire would have been more positive than watching this movie . 
 " baywatch " babe pamela anderson lee proves once and for all that she should keep her double-d's on the small screen . 
at least there you don't have to pay to see her cleavage . 
and for those viewers out there who would only lay down money for this movie in hopes of seeing pam topless , hate to burst your bubble , but there are no full-fledged nude scenes in barb wire . 
you wouldn't be reading this review right now if i had known that fact going in . 
i can't go back in time and reverse my mistake , but i can warn other horny teenage boys out there . 
they do tease us a few times with scenes where you almost see her topless but if she is nude , it's so quick you can't even tell for sure whether you're seeing her andersons or not . 
a nipple hallucination sort of thing . 
barb wire was adapted from a comic book , interesting because pamela is probably the only woman who looks like a comic book character in real life , even wearing low-cut leather to do office work ( businesswoman bondage wear ) and having unreal body proportions . 
yes , like the mona lisa , pamela anderson is a man-made beauty , probably in more senses than one . 
she is a definite beauty , though , and looking at her is never an unpleasant experience . 
you'd just think the woman who began her career as a playboy playmate wouldn't have any reservations about appearing nude in the movie , because it's obvious she wasn't pulling a sharon stone and trying to make people pay attention to her acting skills . 
i mean , she shows off more cleavage here than a jeweler's convention . 
the movie is set in the year 2017 , " the worst year of my life , " pam says . 
 ( " the worst movie of the year , " i say . ) 
america is going through a second civil war and pamela is a nightclub owner in the only free city in the nation ( silicone valley , i think ) . 
she also hires herself out as a bounty hunter when the price is right , posing as first a stripper and later as a prostitute . 
but don't call her " babe . " 
she hates that , and reminds us of that fact way too many times . 
imagine , a woman who does a trapeze strip tease in a bar while having a hose sprayed on her being referred to in such a sexist , demeaning term . 
a liberated woman like pamela anderson shouldn't have to hear words like " babe " during a strip tease , especially since that movie about the talking pig was such a success . 
the plot ( ha-ha ) revolves around a pair of contact lenses that allow their wearer to pass through the congressional directorate's retina scanners . 
in the words of one of the characters , they're " more than meets the eye . " 
reminds me of the " transformers " cartoon , and i sure wished the movie could somehow be transformed into something decent , but that never happened . 
no , the movie just continued on its path of lame action scenes starring pamela van-damme , big-busted kickboxer , and her resistance accomplices , ex-boyfriend axel ( tamuera morrison ) and cora ( victoria rowell ) . 
thank god they didn't name her cora reef . 
one bad character name is more than enough . 
pamela originally doesn't take sides , giving some speech about she's only loyal to the money they pay her , but she changes her mind once the congressional bastards kill her blind brother , jack noseworthy of bon jovi " always " video fame . 
i still don't know if barb wire is a step up or step down for noseworthy , but he definitely is nose worthy ( even if he isn't sponge worthy ) . 
pam gets ready to avenge his death by grabbing up an armful of semi-automatic weapons and strapping an ammunitions belt to her chest . 
it's not rambo . . . 
it's bimbo ! 
mark my words , barb wire will be all over the cinemax network in a year . 
it's got all the elements of the direct-to-video releases featured on hbo's bastard cousin , the cable channel i'd never watch if it didn't somehow come free . 
it's got the non-titillating scenes of voyeurism , laughable flashbacks , bad dialogue and action cliches out the wazzoo . 
there's even a narrator at the beginning setting up the movie's premise while the words scroll up the screen . 
someone needs to tell pamela the wookie this ain't star wars . 
if you've seen any action flick of the past fifteen years , you'll recognize plenty of lifted elements . 
barb wire has the obligatory trucks flipping over , car crashes , explosions , broken glass and slow-motion shots of bodies falling hundreds of feet to their death . 
this is one of those automatic-pilot movies anyone could write or direct . 
barb wire has only two things going for it . . . 
and i think you know what those two things are . 
part buddy comedy , part fish-out-of-water story , part nature tale , meet the deedles is not nearly as interesting as any of those archetypes . 
in fact , it is an invitation you ought to disregard . 
phil and stew deedle ( paul walker and steve van wormer ) are the twin sons of the famous millionaire , elton deedle ( eric braeden ) , founder of deedle enterprises . 
elton wants his sons to be the perfect heirs to his fortune . . . instead 
the two are careless hawaiian surf bums . 
to set them straight , he enrolls them into a strict wyoming boot camp , to which the pair inevitably go . 
after several misadventures in wyoming , where the duo is stunned to discover there's no surf , the brothers deedle stumble upon a routine mistaken identity plot . 
they arrive at yellowstone national park , where they are believed to be two new park ranger recruits . 
rather than slinking back home and disappointing their dad , the deedles play along . 
phil , actually , has other motives : the beautiful park ranger jesse ( a . 
j . langer ) , who unfortunately happens to be the beloved stepdaughter of the overprotective park ranger captain douglas pine ( john ashton ) . 
yellowstone has a problem . 
it's only a week before the famous geyser old faithful celebrates its one billionth birthday , and the park is being overrun with prairie dogs . 
not just one or two . . . thousands of them . 
the deedles are assigned to eliminate the p . dog menace , not knowing that it all is part of a fiendish plan by disgraced former head ranger frank slater ( dennis hopper ) . 
the brothers deedle aren't supposed to be out-and-out stupid , like the team from dumb and dumber , or bill and ted . 
instead , their brains just operate in a different , simpler , realm . 
a more accurate comparison would be with carrot top in chairman of the board , a film which , unfortunately , this one resembles in several hideous ways . 
the central problem with meet the deedles is that it simply just isn't funny . 
there's a moment when phil utters the line , " insert laugh here " , which nearly sums up the entire meet the deedles experience . 
the result isn't bad in a run-shrieking-from-the-theater type of way . 
instead , it's merely bad in an excruciatingly boring sort of way . 
the cast seems decent , but they're never asked to do anything remotely interesting . 
instead , the film inundates the audience with countless shots of people and/or cars rolling downhill in the forest , and with constant annoying references to other disney films . 
you'll have much better luck finding a good spot to surf in wyoming than finding entertainment in meet the deedles . 
adam sandler isn't known for appearing in deep , thought-provoking films , but he's still a really funny guy . 
most of his movies are successful not because of the film making behind them , but because they let sandler do what he does best without a stupid plot to drown him out . 
big daddy is the first film in which the story seems more important than sandler's comic performance , and it's a miserable failure . 
sandler plays a thirty-something loser who gets attached to an orphaned young boy ( played by cole and dylan sprouse ) . 
as one might expect from the synopsis , director dennis dugan resorts to the usual bag of manipulative and sentimental sequences , including a repulsive courtroom battle and a lot of teary scenes in which characters say " good-bye " to one another ; in addition , there's a ridiculous amount of disgusting toilet humor ( urine and vomit both get more screen time than sandler himself ) . 
there's a hilarious running joke featuring a female doctor who previously worked at hooters , and the film features passable performances from sandler , joey lauren adams ( as the love interest ) , and the two young boys , but the film on the whole is trite and disappointingly unfunny . 
at the end of an action scene in " lara croft : tomb raider , " a wall collapses near the nubile warrior . 
with her face on the floor , she gazes into the rubble , then grins abruptly and says " oh , my car keys ! " 
i mention this scene because it was the only moment in the whole damned production that made me smile . 
based on an incredibly popular video game , " lara croft : tomb raider " is a lousy movie . 
the structure goes like this : poorly-staged action sequence , boring exposition , poorly-staged action sequence , boring exposition , etc . etc . , the end . 
basically , the film exists to showcase angelina jolie's puffy lips and enhanced tits . 
close-ups are framed oh-so-carefully to include her million dollar bazooms . 
running scenes highlight her bouncing breasts in vintage " baywatch " fashion . 
there's even include a shower scene that offers a brief side view of them . 
but the filmmakers are so inept they can't even flash the audience correctly . 
the one extended display of nudity is of - get ready for this - a guy . 
for no particular reason , a muscular supporting character strolls around naked for about 30 seconds , with each shot composed to barely cover his package , ? la " austin powers . " 
now , i enjoy a good looking male body as much as the next gay guy , but what the hell is beefcake doing in a t&a flick aimed at heterosexual males ? 
of course , what else should one expect in a film that does virtually nothing right ? 
 " tomb raider " sets up elaborate action set pieces , then renders them incomprehensible with needless jump cut editing ( a promising dual bungee cord battle is ruined by excessive cuts ) . 
it promises a series of exotic locales , then delivers cavernous sets and grimy matte paintings with smoggy skies . 
throw in some bargain basement computer graphics and you end up with the ugliest movie to come down the pike in many moons . 
intended to be a rousing " indiana jones " style adventure , " tomb raider " lacks any sense of tension . 
the low point comes when lara is " threatened " by statues of monkey warriors and a giant multi-armed shiva figure that come to life courtesy of cgi . 
easily the lamest menaces i have ever seen , the creatures move like snails and fall apart with a single shot from a gun . 
if you ever have to be chased by monsters , pray that you get the monkey warriors . 
 " tomb raider " tells a story , sort of . 
once every 5 , 000 years , the planets align . 
a group of very bad men are out to find two halves of an object that , if reassembled just as the planets align , will give them control over time itself . 
lara's goal is to stop them and rescue her long-missing poppa ( jon voight , jolie's real life dad ) . 
none of this matters though , because stunning gaps in internal logic assure that the plot of " lara croft : tomb raider " is as lame as ever other aspect of the film ? except angelina jolie's lips and breasts . 
when robert forster found himself famous again after appearing in " jackie brown " , he immediately signed up for a little film called " american perfekt " . 
this was almost two years ago . 
i waited patiently for the film to be released , but it never was . 
finally , i forgot about it . 
the other day , though , while i was perusing the selection of the local video store , i stumbled upon , you guessed it , " american perfekt " . 
i immediately rented it and with a certain amount of glee , rushed home to view it . 
having now seen the film , i understand why it never saw theatrical release . 
 " american perfekt " is a jumbled mess . 
the storyline is non-existent . 
it took me half the movie just to figure out what was going on . 
and at that point , the only thing i really knew for sure was that the movie was * never * going to introduce a plot of some sort . 
it wants to get by on quirkyness and so-called charm alone , and it just doesn't work . 
robert forster plays a psychiatrist who picks up amanda plummer , and they head off on the road together . 
along the way to no discernable destination , they run into all sorts of kooky and wacky characters . 
i suppose this free-wheeling , no plot style is supposed to give the film an element of danger and excitment , but all it did was make me sleepy . 
i'm all for trying new things within the realm of film , but not at the expense of coherence . 
nothing in this movie makes sense . 
the actions of the characters go unexplained , even when they're truly bizarre . 
i'll give you an example , without giving too much away . 
david thewlis has a part as a drifting con-man . 
at one point , mid-way through the movie , he runs forster and plummer off the road with his car . 
as he passes them , we see that his face is covered in blood . 
do you think we would get an explanation as to what happened to him ? 
you would think so , wouldn't you . 
 " american perfekt " is a waste of time . 
nothing is gained from watching this movie , except maybe a migraine . 
and if you do rent it , don't bother trying to figure out what's going on in the hopes that everything will be resolved by the end . 
this doesn't happen . 
and no explanation is given for the misspelling of " perfect " , either . 
you'd think that after awhile hollywood would stop trying to make movies out of video games . 
it hasn't worked so far . 
 " street fighter ? " 
 " super mario brothers ? " 
 " wing commander ? " 
 " mortal kombat ? " 
not a watchable film in the bunch . 
still i held out some hope for " tomb raider . " 
after all , the game's premise is heavily influenced by the indiana jones trilogy and all the mummy movies , so there are cinematic elements imbedded in the concept . 
however , despite the potential of the project , " tomb raider " proves to be yet another bomb . 
the plot is a convoluted accumulation of nonsense probably borrowed from a dozen bad movies . 
there's a once-ever-5000-years alignment of planets coming up , and the illuminati have to find both halves of an ancient triangle that controls time in order to take over the world . 
of course , the ancient folks who divided the triangle buried the halves in tombs on opposite sides of the world . 
our heroine , lady lara croft ( angelina jolie ) , finds the key that opens the tombs in relics that her dead father ( jon voight ) dug up . 
she figures that if she gets the triangle , she can bring her dad back from the dead . 
of course , no one was expecting much of a plot from this movie anyway . 
in both video games and action movies , the plot is just an excuse for the action sequences . 
however , the action in " tomb raider " shows little style or originality . 
there's lots of shooting and some kung fu fightin' , but none of it progresses beyond the level of a cheap direct-to-cable flick . 
the other goofy archeologist flick of the summer , " the mummy returns , " was much better ; it had its flaws , but its action was creative and large-scale . 
since winning her academy award for " girl , interrupted , " jolie hasn't taken any projects that would display her acting talents . 
 " tomb raider " seems to be more interested in displaying her breasts ; so much attention is drawn to them that it's a shame there's no oscar for best performance by a wonderbra . 
while we don't see much of her acting ability ( with the exception of a wonderful upper-crust british accent ) , we do get a hint of jolie's less savory side . 
considering the rumors of incest that hang over jolie and her supposed obsession with death , having lara be obsessed with resurrecting her dead father ( and uninterested in any of the living males around her ) seems a poor choice . 
having jolie's real life father jon voight play the dead dad makes it even creepier . 
i haven't decided what to make of director simon west yet . 
his first feature was the star-studded disaster " con air , " but my opinion of him improved with " the general's daughter , " which was thick with sultry atmosphere . 
now this train wreck . 
i hope he improves again because his next project is the big screen version of the cult tv series " the prisoner . " 
hollywood has already screwed up " the avengers , " and " the prisoner " represents a chance for redemption . 
 ( by the way , speaking of british tv , " red dwarf " fans should look for chris " rimmer " barrie in his first major film role ) . 
the last of vampire-films offers plenty of blood and gore , but beyond that - nothing . 
jack crow ( james woods ) is a professional vampire slayer that is secretly working for the vatican . 
his and his men's mission is to clean the earth from vampires . 
they have lost count of how many vampires they have slaughtered , but one has always escaped them . 
valek ( thomas ian griffith ) - the dark messias and ruler of the undead that is older than time itself . 
for all eternity the vampires have searched for their salvation - the black cross . 
with the cross in their possesion , the vampires will be able to walk in the sunlight . 
after that it is either the humans or the vampires who will dominate the earth . . . 
i have never liked john carpenter and his style . 
after seeing this film , my opinions have not changed . 
john carpenter remains john carpenter . 
however , because of the film's self-irony , black humour and fascinating cinematography , i would say that it is his greatest achievement in a long , long time . 
neither the synopses or carpenter's direction are original . 
but there are some things that are interesting . 
the director's negative view on the catholic church , for instance . 
at the end of the film it becomes clear that cardinal alba ( maximilian schell ) has simply used crow and his team to find valek , so that he would gain eternal life . 
otherwise the catholic priests are shown cool - drinking , smoking and breaking the rool of celibacy . 
carpenter has created an interesting atmosphere . 
set in new mexican dessert , he switches between bright golden sunrises and bloody sundowns , symbolically illustrating the good and the evil through light and darkness . 
more than anything in this film , this simple illustration shows the battle between good and evil . 
the cinematography by gary b . kibbe is probably the film's greatest achievement . 
music ( composed by john carpenter himself ) is at times effective , the special effects and makeup are likewise worth a notice . 
when it comes to the cast ( in an intellectual film like this casting is the last problem ; everyone can scream and swing the axe ! ) , but here james woods is suprisingly convincing . 
he is macho and cool as the dedicated hunter , who lost his family to the " breed of evil " . 
woods is constantly overacting , which really saves the film from falling into the trap of serious self importance . 
daniel baldwin is also entertaining as crow's loyal partner . 
the other cast members are struggling . 
because the film doesn't take itself too seriously , it stays afloat . 
still it is like most vampire-films - a mediocre experience . 
i'm not sure who the genius is who came up with the idea of comparing " disturbing behavior " with " scream . " 
maybe it's because they're both horror films ( kinda ) , both have hot young stars , both have an annoying alternative soundtrack , and both are aimed at the teenage crowd , which i guess includes me . 
but this is not the next in line with the " scream " flicks as well as the " i know what you did last summer " soon to be flicks . 
it owes less to " halloween " and more to kafka and orwell , which , in my book , makes for a more interesting feature . 
and it should have been . 
this is basically a rehash of " the stepford wives , " the great 70s film i never saw starring katherine ross and dealing , as i've been told , with a bunch of women who are programmed to be perfect housewives . 
or something like that . 
 " behavior , " starring katie holmes of " dawson's creek , " deals with a bunch of teenagers , deep in angst , who are being programmed to be perfect teenagers . 
suck-ups . 
preppies . 
it actually , at least to me , sounds like it would work , and with scott rosenberg , that witty penmen who has written stuff like " beautiful girls " and " things to do in denver when you're dead " ( as well as " con air " ) , it actually sounds like it may be pulled off with the right amount of frights and satiric wit . 
alas , it's not , and it plumets into that little group of movies known as " the movies with potential that blow it . " 
i remember a film called " white man's burden " which dealt with a reversal of blacks and whites in society that did nothing with it's potentially brilliant premise . 
here's another one . 
it could be a brilliant satire on how teenagers need to go through teen angst in order to find themselves . 
it's a stage , and this film does in fact realize that . 
it gets its message across and it does it effortlessly . 
now it just needs to work as a film . 
which it doesn't . 
it's too sloppy and too contrived . 
it paints a bleak portrait of high school life . . . then 
lets it lie . 
it brings us a bunch of scary monsters who are all a bunch of disgustingly icky kiss-ups who do food drives and hang out at a 50s diner drinking milk shakes . . . then 
gives it a cheap twist : when they get horny , they become homicidal . 
isn't it scary enough that they're like this , and can't the real terror in the town be that you could be next to be just like them - not that you could be next to die ? 
the film introduces us two three different characters who , in the beginning , are considered outsiders because they're not ( yet ) part of this clique : the new kid , steve ( james marsden - dull dull dull dull ) , who's having trouble at home because he hasn't gotten over his brother's ( ethan embry , in quick flashes so you don't recognize him - i did ) suicide ; the renegade girl , rachel ( katie holmes , from " dawson's creek " ) , who's chief personality trait is her prominent nose ring ; and by far the most interesting kid , gavin ( nick stahl , the kid from " the man without a face " ) , who's the most interesting because he's the only character who's given some dimension . 
in the film's best scene , he introduces steve to every single clique , nailing each one's fetishes and hang-ups , and it's the best scene in the movie because it's witty , satirical , and interesting - something the rest of this film isn't . 
gavin suspects there's something awry with the preppie kids , known as the blue ribbons , and in the tradition of all conspirators , and even when he actually shows hard pure evidence to steve , he's only treated as a typical raving conspiracy buff . 
here , we have another case of " the idiot plot , " where not only could steve had done something about gavin and what happens to him , but he may have saved this film from being the dreary , dull film that it is without gavin , who gives it life and humor . 
the only other half-interesting character is the school janitor , played by william sadler as a retarded , scary guy who may not be what he seems to be . . . but 
really , we don't care anyway . 
i probably shouldn't mention that this was directed by david nutter , who's works for " the x-files , " because that would probably tarnish his reputation . 
like the show , he's good at setting up weird conspiracies , and creating a general creepy feel . 
most of this film is shot at night and with dark eerie shadows for the maximum creepy effect , and some of it works . 
but what this film is not so good at is coming out with a good payoff . 
he keeps too much inside , so much that when the characters journey to a mental institution in the third act , you wonder why they just don't get the hell out of there . 
i think what happens to gavin is proof enough that there's something rotten in the state of teen angstdom . 
what this film needs to be is a lot longer , a lot more colorful , and a lot creepier . 
if the best villain they can come up with is a guidance counselor ( played by bruce greenwood , an atom egoyan regular obviously just trying to pay the rent ) who still thinks he can get away with it even when most is revealed , then they need to come up with a tougher , smarter villain . 
if he's so villainous , then why could two dense teenagers who couldn't figure out there was something going on until it was way too late find information on him in a couple minutes ? 
the film , which runs about 80 or so minutes , just needs to work on these things , and become a lot less sloppy . 
at such a short running time and with such lame , boring characters as these , it's pretty much obvious that leaving this film leaves a horribly unsatisfied taste in one's mouth , especially mine . 
in the interest of being generous , i want to start this review with the scene that i liked in meet joe black . 
sir anthony hopkins , playing a super-rich media mogul , has gathered his family around him for dinner . 
his oldest daughter ( played by marcia gay harden from millers crossing ) , who has been obsessively planning his sinfully extravagant birthday party , presents him with three superbly decorated little cakes , which are supposed to be scale models for his big birthday cake . 
the daughter asks hopkins to pick the one he likes . 
hopkins , frustrated by the weight of planning for the whole elaborate affair , does what any man in his position would do : he punts . 
whichever one you like , dear , he says . 
and the daughter does exactly what any woman in her position would do : she cries . 
i liked that scene for two reasons . 
first , the cakes looked really cool . 
second , it was , perhaps , the only scene in the movie where people acted as you would expect people to act . 
meet joe black is chock-full of odd performances , people doing things for no discernible reason at all , and doing them in slow motion over the course of three hours to boot . 
it's easy to watch meet joe black for the abundant eye candy of the palatial homes and the beauteous claire forlani , but it's even easier to sleep right through it ( two people on my row managed it quite nicely ) . 
the difficult part of the movie is understanding the characters and their motivations and why someone thought three hours was an appropriate length for this overwrought mess . 
i know my audience had problems with the movie , because they thought it was a comedy . 
case in point : everyone should know by now that brad pitt plays the angel of death in this movie . 
however , the first we see of him is as a young lawyer in a coffee shop hitting on the glamorous claire forlani . 
 ( it's not clear from the movie whether you need a law degree to become the angel of death , but it makes a certain kind of sense . ) 
it shouldn't take long for the observant moviegoer to realize that bad things are about to happen to mr . pitt . 
and indeed they do ( after a hideously prolonged sequence where pitt looks over his shoulder at the retreating forlani and forlani looks over her shoulder at the retreating pitt ) , because pitt walks into the road without looking and suddenly gets squished . 
well , when that happened , the audience howled with laughter , and continued to laugh at every comment that was remotely humorous . 
so , if you think that sudden violent death and sarcastic drawing-room humor are funny , i encourage you to go see meet joe black immediately . 
anyway , the deceased lawyer's body , no worse the wear from its massive injuries , is possessed by the angel of death and brad pitt takes over that role . 
the idea is that death ( given the pen name of joe black , so as not to disturb others ) wants to take a holiday and experience the world . 
if this weren't hollywood , we might get an interesting metaphysical discussion of life and death , but since it is , we get scene after scene of fish-out-of-water humor , just as if death is george of the jungle or crocodile dundee or some other poor schmuck who's wandered in from the jungle or the outback or whatever and doesn't know how to act in our society . 
it also doesn't help that the character of death is written so inconsistently . 
he claims to be on vacation , but he never does anything except hang around the seriously attractive claire forlani ( just try to get your travel agent to book that one ) . 
he speaks very slow and halting english but perfectly fluent jamaican patois . 
he knows everything about some characters , nothing about others . 
and as played by brad pitt , he's not especially menacing or charming or glamorous or intriguing , he's just there . 
it's as if someone told pitt , " never mind about acting in this picture , son , just stand there and look pretty . " 
it's as if pitt is doing his keanu reeves impression throughout the movie . 
i've used the phrase " angel of death " in this review very deliberately to contrast pitt's performance with this year's best angel performance , nicolas cage's in city of angels . 
where pitt is cold and unfeeling , cage is as warm and empathetic as the situation allows . 
where cage is genuinely curious about the nature of man , pitt is aloof and arrogant . 
cage struck instant chemical sparks with co-star meg ryan , where the chemistry between pitt and forlani is only understandable if you accept the notion that forlani's character is so shallow that she can't see beyond pitt's good looks . 
the movie's other top name is a much better actor , but that doesn't save meet joe black . 
sir anthony hopkins isn't given much better material to work with , unfortunately . 
he plays one of these good-hearted multimillionaire media moguls that only exist in hollywood . 
 ( one wonders what might have happened if they had made hopkins's character more realistically evil . ) 
hopkins is marked for death due to a bad ticker , but death steps in and grants him some extra time in exchange for being his guide in the world . 
of course , no one can be sure of how they will act when death taps on their shoulder . 
but i have to wonder ( and in this movie , you have a very long time to wonder ) how you or i would act in a similar situation , especially if you or i were a multimillionaire . 
hopkins pretty much goes to the office -- and the major subplot revolves around who will control the corporation . 
fans of corporate intrigue will be fascinated , i'm sure . 
i stayed awake all the way through meet joe black , and i'm asking myself why . 
movies about death should encourage you to live life to the fullest , which is what i'm going to do now . 
go spend time with your family , go volunteer for a local charity , heck , go take a nap . 
don't go see meet joe black , because all it will do is move you three long hours closer to death . 
-- curtis edmonds 
 " no children have ever meddled with the republican party and lived to tell about it . " 
-- sideshow bob 
a cop with a troubled personal life . 
a ruthless villain . 
a friend of the cop . 
a _dead_ friend of the cop . 
a quest for vengeance . 
a new partner . 
a romantic interest . 
a chase scene . 
a chase scene _in san francisco_ . 
a woman in peril . 
a confrontation . 
an explosion . 
the end . 
yawn . 
yawn . 
yawn . 
the preceding has been the plot of approximately twelve thousand and six action films ; this one just happens to be called metro . 
i have learned to expect little from films like metro , and consequently i am bored by them more often than i am genuinely disappointed . 
with eddie murphy on board , however , you hope for something extra , some kind of spark . 
when a film makes watching eddie murphy a tedious experience , you know it is doing something terribly wrong . 
murphy stars as scott roper , a hostage negotiator for the san francisco police department who is exceedingly good at his job . 
with his personal life , he is considerably less successful , facing an unhappy ex-girlfriend named veronica ( carmen ejogo ) , a gambling problem and a mountain of debt . 
then his professional life gets a jolt as well when a friend and colleague ( art evans ) is murdered while investigating suspected jewel thief michael korda ( michael wincott ) . 
finding korda becomes very personal to scott , and he joins with new partner kevin mccall ( michael rappaport ) to foil korda during an attempted heist . 
but all is not well even with korda in jail , as scott , veronica and kevin all continue to face life-threatening danger . 
metro ( the title , in case you are wondering , means absolutely nothing ) is so badly put together that even the most casual viewer may notice the miserable pacing and stray plot threads . 
in the first place , korda's rage over being discovered before he can make his big score is rendered completely pointless when he proceeds to hit the target anyway ( and , incidentally , to screw it up ) . 
a reference to payoffs in the police department , followed by a conspicuous decision to keep scott off the korda case and a couple of pointed glances , is dropped abruptly with no resolution after about forty-five minutes ; even the relationship between scott and new partner kevin is so perfunctory , with kevin disappearing entirely after taking a bullet for scott , that you may yearn for bickering buddies . 
worst of all is a plot structure which places the main villain ( the always menacing michael wincott ) behind bars for far too long , leaving a lot of time to kill with the tedious reconciliation of scott and veronica . 
you can't blame murphy for being unable to muster any enthusiasm for the scenes with his bland leading lady , but he should have known better than to take this role at all . 
scott roper exists in an uncomfortable middle ground between the kind of street-wise fast-talker murphy has built a career on and an actual three-dimensional character , and murphy is never able to reconcile the two . 
the script seems to have been doctored for him , with a gambling problem turned into a bit of character color and his supposed inability to form relationships turned into a cause for gags rather than actual conflict , yet there is still too little comedy for murphy to work with . 
for much of the film , he walks around with an intense frown , and it is over 90 minutes into metro before you hear that trademark laugh for the first time . 
murphy is stranded with too few solid punch lines , and nearly all of the ones he does have bounce of ejogo and fall to the ground limply . 
i suppose i should give director thomas carter credit for taking the obligatory san francisco car chase ( how much do you want to bet on the likelihood of seeing a car soar over a hill ? ) and doing a few interesting things with it . 
as vehicles are sent flying and passengers sent sprawling by a runaway cable car , it is possible at least for a moment to take some pleasure in a goofy spin on a familiar situation . 
carter does an even better job by taking that old suspense stand-by -- the medicine cabinet mirror which will close to reveal a killer standing behind someone -- and using it to defuse tension not once , but _twice_ . 
the fact that carter was able to demonstrate even that much recognition of cliches , and a willingness to subvert them , makes his involvement in the rest of the disaster that is metro all the more puzzling . 
an action film like this plods so relentlessly and obviously from point a to point b to point c that you might find yourself shouting out " point c ! " while they're still getting to point b , or getting up with the rest of the audience after the big explosion which signals that nothing else of any consequence is going to happen . 
can a horror movie truly be called a horror movie if it has no scares , suspense , or even eerie elements ? 
i think not , but that's what children of the corn 666 : issac's return wants us to believe . 
the sixth installment in the horrible , worn out series is by far the worst to date . 
unlike the other five chapters , children of the corn 666 is a confusing , brainless thriller that takes the psychological horror route rather than slasher horror , but either way , none of these movies are the least bit scary . 
the film follows hannah ( natalie ramsey ) a teen looking for her mother in gatlin , nebraska , on the eve of her 21st birthday . 
what starts out as a daughter in desperate search of her long lost mother turns into the story of hannah being the first daughter of the children of the corn , who roam the cornfields looking for adults to murder . 
that's about all that's understandable in the film , as after we learn this much , issac ( john franklin ) who led the children of the corn in a previous chapter , now an older , strange man , is looking for hannah to fulfill his prophecy . 
and this is supposed to make sense . 
really . 
from the start the film is unclear of where its going , not developing any characters or throwing any concrete plot details across the table , constantly introducing new characters without personalities or the slightest hint of an individuality , and sub plots that have nothing to do with what seems to the main focus of the film . 
the film runs at a short 78 minutes , but it seems to be more in the vicinity of two hours , as the bleak , slow pacing makes children of the corn 666 : issac's return excruciatingly boring . 
plot holes are everywhere in tim sulka and john franklin's unbelievably horrible script , as nothing is accomplished or clear when the film reaches its conclusion . 
everyone and everything involved with children of the corn 666 : issac's return , namely writers john franklin and tim sulka , along with director kari skogland , should crawl under a rock , and hope no one sees their horrible work of trash . 
the bottom line : horrible , horrible , horrible . 
another attempt to revive this worn out genre falls flat . 
and what's with that title ? 
the devil has nothing to do whatsoever with this film . 
let's pray that this is the finale in one of the worst current film series . 
one of the worst horror films in years . 
arnold schwarzenegger has been an icon for action enthusiasts , since the late 80's , but lately his films have been very sloppy and the one-liners are getting worse . 
it's hard seeing arnold as mr . freeze in batman and robin , especially when he says tons of ice jokes , but hey he got 15 million , what's it matter to him ? 
once again arnold has signed to do another expensive blockbuster , that can't compare with the likes of the terminator series , true lies and even eraser . 
in this so called dark thriller , the devil ( gabriel byrne ) has come upon earth , to impregnate a woman ( robin tunney ) which happens every 1000 years , and basically destroy the world , but apparently god has chosen one man , and that one man is jericho cane ( arnold himself ) . 
with the help of a trusty sidekick ( kevin pollack ) , they will stop at nothing to let the devil take over the world ! 
parts of this are actually so absurd , that they would fit right in with dogma . 
yes , the film is that weak , but it's better than the other blockbuster right now ( sleepy hollow ) , but it makes the world is not enough look like a 4 star film . 
anyway , this definitely doesn't seem like an arnold movie . 
it just wasn't the type of film you can see him doing . 
sure he gave us a few chuckles with his well known one-liners , but he seemed confused as to where his character and the film was going . 
it's understandable , especially when the ending had to be changed according to some sources . 
aside form that , he still walked through it , much like he has in the past few films . 
i'm sorry to say this arnold but maybe these are the end of your action days . 
speaking of action , where was it in this film ? 
there was hardly any explosions or fights . 
the devil made a few places explode , but arnold wasn't kicking some devil butt . 
the ending was changed to make it more spiritual , which undoubtedly ruined the film . 
i was at least hoping for a cool ending if nothing else occurred , but once again i was let down . 
i also don't know why the film took so long and cost so much . 
there was really no super affects at all , unless you consider an invisible devil , who was in it for 5 minutes tops , worth the overpriced budget . 
the budget should have gone into a better script , where at least audiences could be somewhat entertained instead of facing boredom . 
it's pitiful to see how scripts like these get bought and made into a movie . 
do they even read these things anymore ? 
it sure doesn't seem like it . 
thankfully gabriel's performance gave some light to this poor film . 
when he walks down the street searching for robin tunney , you can't help but feel that he looked like a devil . 
the guy is creepy looking anyway ! 
when it's all over , you're just glad it's the end of the movie . 
don't bother to see this , if you're expecting a solid action flick , because it's neither solid nor does it have action . 
it's just another movie that we are suckered in to seeing , due to a strategic marketing campaign . 
save your money and see the world is not enough for an entertaining experience . 
i still can't figure out why people went in droves to see this movie . 
now before you go assuming i'm some sort of high brow snob , who can't appreciate a little dumb humor , let me say that i love cheap humor . 
i thought there's something about mary was one of the funniest films that i have ever seen and it was certainly one of the best films of 1998 . 
low brow adolescent humor can be a lot of fun , the problem with the waterboy is that it is just low brow and adolescent , there is no humor component . 
i wanted to like the waterboy , i really did . 
i think i only laughed maybe 2 or 3 times throughout the entire movie . 
actually , i smiled a couple of more times on top of that . 
not a great record for a 90-minute film . 
the problem with the waterboy is the same as most other adam sandler movies . 
those responsible for this mess seem to think that the sheer fact that sandler walks around using a goofy voice and playing dumb the entire movie is a substitute for actual funny material . 
nothing could be further from the truth , as matter of fact , sandler's idiot voice started to get on my nerves at points in this film . 
it's really a shame too , because this film had the potential to be very funny . 
i personally believe that sandler is probably a very talented comedian , it's just that so far he hasn't been able to find the right film to showcase his talents . 
if his only talent is making goofy voices and playing morons , my guess is that his career in the movies will go down the same road as the vast majority of the former stars of saturday night live . 
most of whom are now happily no longer in the entertainment industry . 
sandler plays a 31-year-old , somewhat mentally challenged , waterboy for a college football team . 
the team's somewhat mentally disturbed coach ( henry winkler ) realizes that his waterboy has a great deal of pent-up rage , which , if harnessed properly , would make him a force to be reckoned with on the football field . 
you can figure out the rest from here . 
sandler joins the team and this once lowly waterboy becomes a football star . 
as i said , the film had a great deal of potential . 
the idea was a decent one , but the main potential of this movie is a result of the cast . 
all of whom are very good , just hamstrung by really , really , lousy material . 
even sandler , annoying goofy voice and all , has enough charisma and natural comedic ability to overcome some of his bad material . 
even as unfunny as his character is , i still found myself rooting for him throughout the film . 
but it is the supporting cast that i feel most badly about . 
if their material had been just a bit better , this film could have been such a funny movie . 
fairuza balk plays sandler's leather-wearing biker-chick love interest and does a great job playing sleazy and sexy at the same time . 
winkler is great as the coach who uses a " coaching for dummies " -style book to help him get through games . 
the real standout though , is kathy bates . 
even with some of the worst material of her career to deal with , she is still a treat to watch in her role as sandler's overprotective and overbearing mama . 
even with the performances of bates and winkler , there is absolutely no way i would recommend this movie . 
although i get the distinct impression that without them , this film would have ranked in negative numbers for me . 
which is sad , because i can't really put my finger on a particular element of the movie and single it out as the cause of the disaster that it became . 
it's obvious that those involved , specifically the actors , tried very hard to make what they thought was going to be a funny movie . 
it's just too bad that 99 percent of all of the jokes fell flat . 
gordie boggs ( arquette , aptly cast as a moron , as he is one ) and his best friend sean dawkins ( scott caan . 
the son of james caan should not be reduced to garbage like this ! ) are two losers from wyoming with no jobs and no girlfriends , who look up to world championship wrestling champion jimmy king ( a terribly casted oliver platt ) , as he is everything they are not . 
they finally get to see him live and he is screwed out of his title by the evil , ruthless promoter titus sinclair ( a wasted palitaliano , in a role originally meant for real-life wcw president eric bischoff , whose name was written all over the role ! ) . 
gordie and sean track down king in atlanta and discover that he is not really the english king the wcw writers created for him , but a drunken , ignorant southerner who is as irritated by these two lunkheads as bob newhart was by larry , darryl , and darryl . 
they sneak him back onto wcw tv , after which sinclair agrees to book him in a steel cage match in las vegas at wcw's next pay-per-view , against his rival , diamond dallas page . 
if he wins , king gets his title and his career back , plus one million dollars . 
wcw president eric bischoff , knowing his promotion was desperate with bad writing and ratings skyrocketing down thanks to the far superior world wrestling federation , came up with the idea for this movie hoping it would save wcw . 
he was then fired and rehired two months ago , but by the time he'd left , they had already been contracted to do the film , and bischoff could not play sinclair ( which , in itself , is for the best , as anybody who has seen him on wcw programming knows that bischoff is no actor ! ) . 
the characters of gordie and sean show you exactly what eric bischoff thinks of his fans . 
he thinks of them as young , dumb pathetic idiots who will believe anything that will be put out in front of them is real . 
that is why he doesn't take the fans into consideration when he books a nitro or a pay-per-view . 
i have news for you , eric : no wrestling fan in this day and age is dumb enough to believe that professional wrestling isn't for show , unless they are four years old . 
this is 2000 , you know , not 1985 . 
bischoff will try to cover up criticism like that by saying it is a comedy , but i have no doubt in my mind that if this had been a dramatic , rocky-style film ( which it probably should have been . 
professional wrestling is ridiculed enough as it is , why should the first wrestling movie in ten years be a comedy ? ) , gordie and sean would have been portrayed in the same light . 
anybody who has seen the documentary wrestling with shadows , documenting wwf owner vince mcmahon's double-crossing of bret hart , will probably realize via the reviews and previews of ready to rumble , that it is basically a rip-off of that film's storyline with the poor man's wayne and garth thrown in for comedic affect . 
you can tell titus sinclair is supposed to poke fun at vince , but any self-respecting wrestling fan knows that sinclair is more inspired by bischoff than vince , and that vince did what he had to do to bret hart . 
all of these aspects of the film , needless to say , seriously offended me as a wrestling fan . 
another thing i found disturbing about the film was the romance between gordie and nitro girl sasha ( the lovely rose mcgowan ) . 
wouldn't it have been easier to bring something new into the relationship rather than revealing she was only working on gordie at sinclair's insistance ? 
i hate that cliche ! 
the world wrestling federation would have made a better film . 
they are the promotion everyone cares about , they are winning the ratings , they have better wrestlers , and they take their fans into consideration and don't treat fans like morons . 
so , vince , how about a movie ? 
when i arrived in paris in june , 1992 , i was surprised to find france plastered with posters twin peaks : fire walk with me , since the movie wasn't scheduled to open in the u . s . until late august . 
happily , the film--the prequel to david lynch's cult television series--was playing in a fancy , thx theater . 
unfortunately , the theater was far more impressive than the movie , which absolutely stinks , much like a french lavatory . 
worse , actually . 
fire walk with me ( directed by lynch ) will be completely incomprehensible to anyone who has not seen the tv series or read " laura palmer's secret diary . " 
for " twin peaks " junkies , like me , the movie is only marginally improved . 
the plot is jumbled and illogical , not to mention excruciatingly sluggish . 
the first 30 minutes , which have almost nothing to do with the main story line , feature chris isaak and kiefer sutherland as fbi agents investigating a murder in portland , oregon . 
the movie then stops in philadelphia for a nonsensical cameo by david bowie and a brief appearance by kyle maclachlan as dale cooper . 
lynch then drops this plot strand altogether and abruptly shifts the setting to twin peaks , washington--one year later . 
ah , twin peaks : " familiar territory , " you think to yourself as angelo badalamenti's distinctive musical score chimes in . 
wrong ! 
the movie proves that you really can't go home again , or at least lynch can't . 
only about a quarter of the characters from the tv series appear in the movie : leland palmer , bobby briggs , james , shelly , leo , the log lady and a few others--mostly in meaningless cameos . 
the rest of the " twin peaks " cast is nowhere to be seen , and consequently , lynch fails to recreate the spirit and flavor of tv's most enigmatic town . 
cast members michael ontkean , sherilyn fenn , piper laurie , and richard beymer are sorely missed , not to mention lara flynn boyle , who has been replaced by lackluster moira kelly in the crucial role of donna . 
the movie concentrates solely on laura palmer ( sheryl lee ) as she suffers through drug abuse , prostitution , and incest , during her miserable last seven days on earth . 
the night of laura's death , which is truly terrifying , is the film's only remotely effective sequence . 
we finally get to see exactly what happened to laura after she jumped off james' motorcycle and ran into the woods at that lonely traffic light in the middle of nowhere . 
her murder unfolds just as agent cooper reconstructed it in the tv series , which is gratifying for faithful " twin peaks " viewers . 
but it's an awfully small reward for sitting through a painfully awful movie . 
capsule : this super-light situation comedy from sweden tells the story of two close friends with romantic problems . 
the script involves formerly taboo subjects like erotic toys and sexual enhancers but otherwise the writing is not a lot different from what is shown free on television . 
the characters are paper-thin and the interesting ideas purely non-existent . 
this is a decrement-life-by-90-minutes card . 
 , 0 ( -4 to +4 ) 
jalla ! jalla ! 
is basically an exuberant tv situation comedy written instead for the wide screen . 
it tells the story of two park custodians and the problems they are finding on the path to true love . 
the film is set in sweden where roro and mans ( fares fares and torkel petersson ) are custodians at a public park . roro is from a tightly knit lebanese family who control him very closely , mans is a swede from a much more liberal background . 
they spend most of the day in the bushes at their park , cleaning up after dogs . 
roro and mans each have girlfriends , but each has a problem . 
roro ( nicknamed " jalla " ) is having family problems . 
it seems that his family wants to arrange a marriage between him and a nice lebanese woman , yasmin ( laleh pourkarim ) , but he is already in love with lisa ( tuva novotny ) . 
yasmin likes roro , but does not want to get married either . 
mans on the other hand has been having a problem of sexual impotence . 
the two friends worry about their problems and discuss the problems with each other . 
mans thinks the answer to his problem is to purchase sexual enhancers . 
the one catch is that he is too shy to go in and buy them . 
roro and yasmin decide to give themselves some time by telling the families that they want to marry each other , but then plan to break up before the wedding . 
not too surprisingly neither finds that his idea works out the way he quite expected . 
the plot turns in several places are contrived . 
one knows fairly quickly that if things are going to work our happily for everybody certain plot contrivances have to happen . 
lebanese-born josef fares who wrote and directed is perhaps a better director than he is a writer . 
when things start to get slow , he just adds throws in another story . 
for example halfway into the film mans innocently antagonizes some local toughs and a long chase is added to the film . 
characterization is a little better with roro than it is with mans who does not seem to have a whole lot more personality beyond fear for losing a biological function . 
we do see some of roro's family life and his concerns . 
that may be because roro's background is a lot like that of the director . 
while the story was entertaining , i did not feel that i got anything worthwhile from the film . 
it was just a way to pass about an hour and a half in my life . 
one does not have to go to the movies to see entertainment like this . 
i rate it a 4 on the 0 to 10 scale and a 0 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
remember tom cruise and brian brown as rival bartenders juggling bottles of booze in " cocktail " ? 
remember how stupid that looked ? 
and remember the scantily-clad dancers of " flashdance " getting doused with buckets of water ? 
well , " coyote ugly " does those films five better ( or six better if you count john goodman ) , since here we have piper perado , maria bello , tyra banks , melanie lynskey , and izabella miko doing the absolut spinning and jiggling thing while pouring pitchers of perrier all over their semi-naked torsos . 
no , goodman doesn't flip jim beams or wear anything particularly risqu ? in the film but he * does * get up on the bar and start gyrating with the rest of them . 
and the central character's love interest , played by an australian actor named adam garcia , proves * he * can get up on that bar and start shimmying along with the rest of them too . 
what seems to have started life as a victoria's secret photo shoot quickly deteriorates into one heck of an embarrassing movie . 
violet ( perado ) is a south amboy hopeful who tries to make it big as a songwriter ( not a welder ) in new jack city . 
as na ? ve as they come , she's fobbed off by music producer's receptionists by the scorn-ful and has her apartment robbed hours after touching down in chinatown . 
and , like her mother before her , she gets stage fright whenever she tries to do the open mike night thing . 
when she sees a trio of babe-a-licious barkeeps thumbing through a stack of $20s in an all-night diner , violet simply has to check out this bar they call coyote ugly . 
lil ( bello ) , the no-nonsense owner , agrees to give violet an audition but violet blows it . 
still , lil gives violet another chance . 
a riot breaks out ( riots are the order of the day at 'ugly's , since the staff are relentless in flaunting their sexual wares , flambeeing the bar , and soaking the patrons with diet sprite--this is certifiable behavior in case i didn't mention it ) but violet successfully subdues the crowd by singing along to blondie's " one way or another " on the jukebox . 
she's hired ! 
and cured , since this little episode gives her the confidence to sing in an amateur talent contest where her dad ( goodman ) , the junk food-eating , laundry-impaired toll collector , comes to see her and is as proud as punch . 
the end . 
confucius once said , " governing a nation is like cooking a small fish -- don't overdo it . " 
his maxim might be easily applied to writing a comedy script , for quantity over quality is one of the worst mistakes an amateur scribe can make . 
granted , mike judge , writer-director of the workplace satire office space isn't exactly an amateur ( his most infamous work , the mtv series " beavis and butt-head " was pure gold for its network ) . 
but unfailingly , judge manages to make some rather inexcusable mistakes in office space by spreading an iffy plot over too much ground . 
the iffiness in judge's plot -- a group of coworkers plan the downfall of their despicable boss -- is not in its appeal . 
in fact , based on the popularity of scott adams' cartoon " dilbert , " which will soon have its own television series , a satirical view of the american workplace is a hot item in hollywood . 
unfortunately the concept lends itself to skit-length sequences which would be more at home on the set of " saturday night live " rather than a full-length feature . 
the most convincing evidence of this are the trailers for office space , which feature almost all of the movie's top content ; this leaves the actual picture appearing very deflated . 
other evidence of office space's failure to work are its lack of good jokes . 
the comedy is marginally funny at best , but not enough to get a packed house of theater-goers to laugh out loud . 
the material in the movie is on-key for an older demographic than judge is used to targeting , and this could partially explain his work here . 
however , the movie is loaded with too many misfires -- including the token plot -- to allow for any excuse . 
the plot centers around three or four cubicled engineers , headed up by peter gibbons ( ron livingston ) , at a company named initech . 
after the movie elaborately establishes the miserable working conditions at initech , the movie introduces us to two consultants ( john c . mcginley and paul willson ) which are in charge of " downsizing " the company's payroll . 
when peter and his gang learns of this , as well as the reason behind it -- so their smooth talking boss bill lumbergh ( gary cole ) 's stock will go up -- they set about creating a plan to see his downfall . 
the circumstances that follow were obviously intended to be hilarious but they come out as anything but . 
a sympathetic cast and a muddled jennifer aniston-as-love-interest subplot are all that keep this one together , but it's definitely missable in lieu of something more intelligent . 
it seemed like the perfect concept . 
what better for the farrelly brothers , famous for writing and directing comedies with offensive subject matter , than to make a movie about a guy with a split personality ? 
it's exactly the sort of thing the brothers relish : poking fun at something serious ( in this case mental illness ) , throwing all care to the wind to get a laugh . 
jim carrey's signed on too ? 
even better . 
the national alliance for the mentally ill even helped out by levying complaints against the brothers' new film before its opening , claiming it was misrepresenting the condition of split personality , labeling it incorrectly as " schizophrenia , " and so forth . 
such a protest seemed like just the sort of thing that would , of course , only add more fuel to the farrelly brothers' fire , proving that some people just couldn't take a joke , and that the farrellys would be helping the more enlightened viewers to yet another dose of their brilliantly subversive comedy . 
yes , it all seemed perfect , but one thing went wrong : their movie isn't funny . 
it's not for lack of trying . 
the farrellys utilize in " me , myself & irene " their most high-concept premise ever : carrey plays charlie baileygaites , a man who after being dumped by his wife for a midget limo driver , decides to bury all his aggressive feelings deep down inside and never release them . 
this , of course , means all his neighbors exploit his entirely too-forgiving nature , making his job as a rhode island state trooper increasingly difficult . 
soon enough , charlie's repressed aggression manifests itself into a second , independent personality named hank , a deep-voiced , boorish ogre unafraid of taking the assertive actions his predecessor had been unable to muster . 
this guy isn't above crashing a car through the wall of the barber shop in which he's been insulted , or holding a little girl's head underwater because she refused to stop jump-roping in the street . 
then things start getting lost in the most complicated plot the farrellys have ever attempted , and the film runs off its tracks . 
some have suggested that this isn't a problem , because the farrelly brothers' brand of humor doesn't require plot to work . 
they're wrong , of course : plot was greatly instrumental in building up the kind of rollicking comic energy that infused the farrellys' last effort , 1996's " there's something about mary . " 
 ( 1999's " outside providence " was technically an earlier project . ) 
the brothers' earlier film wasn't funny merely because it contained outrageous gags ( despite what some newsmagazine articles would have you believe ) , but rather because its most outrageous gags were entirely unexpected . 
in " mary , " the farrellys managed several times to pull off a neat sleight-of-hand trick : they'd have you thinking the story was going one way , then reveal its real direction in delightfully surprising fashion . 
 " me , myself & irene , " by contrast , seems to have been made by folks who looked at " mary " and saw only the surface grossness , missing all of the subtle machinations that really made it work . 
having been produced by the same guys who made " mary , " " irene " seems like an even bigger disappointment . 
the brothers pile on the offensive humor , taking shots at race , midgets , albinos , mental illness , and all manner of bathroom jokes . 
but they haven't come up with a way to make any of it fresh ; most of " me , myself & irene " comes off as rote , by-the-numbers , adolescent comedy . 
the plot , with carrey forced to drive alleged fugitive irene p . waters ( renee zellweger ) , who's in more trouble than anyone knows , back to new york , has an ending that's entirely predictable from the get-go . 
 ( think charlie and irene will fall in love ? 
yeah , me too . ) 
the farrellys then introduce scores of different characters , and none of them ever manage to do anything you haven't already expected them to do , no matter how outrageous their actions might be . 
compared to the curveballs the farrellys are used to throwing , this stuff is almost entirely soft-tossed , presenting an obvious problem : when gross-out humor loses its shock value , it's no longer funny , merely gross . 
the jokes that do work are milked over and over until their effectiveness runs dry . 
take , for example , the subplot involving charlie's three black sons ( anthony anderson , mongo brownlee , jerod mixon ) . 
the incongruity of it all is funny for a while , with three burly black men discussing higher math in ghetto language and white-bread carrey mouthing said language with an entirely too-pleasant smile on his face . 
but by the end of the film , they're still doing the same schitck ; it hasn't been elevated to another , funnier level , and it hasn't been dropped either . 
that's too bad , because it ceases to be amusing about halfway through . 
 " me , myself & irene " reeks of wasted opportunities . 
there ought to be more focus on how other people react to charlie's new personality , and on how charlie deals with the consequences of hank's actions . 
this doesn't really happen ; nearly every supporting character learns about charlie's condition early on , so they don't have any opportunity to be surprised by it . 
the film throws what looks like a patented farrelly curve in a scene towards the midway point ( involving an albino companion charlie and irene pick up called , appropriately , " whitey " ) , but the script doesn't go anywhere with it , instead leaving the thread twisting in the wind before awkwardly tying it up during the climax . 
jim carrey is a gifted comedian , both physically and vocally , but he's left with nothing much to do here except contort himself in a manner similar to steve martin in " all of me . " 
it's a great showcase of flexibility and split-second role-shifting , but none of it is terribly funny . 
carrey doesn't pull any stunts we don't expect him to pull , and the farrellys' script doesn't give him anything else to pull : the situations in which he must perform the role-shifting aren't set up in any meaningful way . 
perhaps carrey can take solace in the fact that his supporting actors fare no better . 
zellweger's irene is not a strong female lead ; mary in " mary " may have been part adolescent fantasy , but she was also intelligent and strong-willed . 
irene is nothing in particular , as the film never makes clear whether she's ditzy , clever , or neither . 
as such , she gives us nothing to latch onto as the only " sane " person in the film . 
chris cooper is stuck playing exactly one note as a corrupt fbi agent , and his character is entirely too straight-laced for a movie like this . 
he , like the others , does absolutely nothing unexpected . 
after viewing the shapeless mess that " me , myself & irene " eventually dissolved into , i was stuck wondering whether or not the farrellys had outsmarted themselves . 
maybe their kind of comedy can only work for so long until audiences get wise to it and stop being shocked . 
but i don't believe it -- good filmmakers find ways of surprising their audiences even after people have grown attuned to their style . 
if the farrellys are indeed good , smart filmmakers ( and i still think they are ) , they'll rebound just fine . 
even after that happens , though , i'll still consider " me , myself & irene " to be a high-caliber misfire . 
there's a scene somewhere in this film where one of the characters reads the book " screenwriting made easy . " 
this is funny the first time just 'cause it is , but funnier as the film goes on since it's totally ironic since the screenwriters of this inane film probably read it , outlined it and then wrote this film . 
it's like they took the sub-genre of the disaster pic , which can be fun and hokey at the same time , and then forgot one of the greatest parts of them : the stupid , eccentric characters . 
yes , " the poseidon adventure " is crap , but it's fun 'cause of all the stupid , eccentric characters . 
and " earthquake , " my god ! 
 " earthquake " has got to be one of the worst movies of all time , but at least they had the joke of having charlton heston sleeping with genevieve bujold . 
 " volcano " takes a semi-intriguing yet stupendously inane plot ( a volcano no one knew about suddenly errupts one fine morning and then erupts again later then stops . . . only 
it's in , dare i say it ? 
l . a ! ! ! ) and then puts no stupid , stereotypical , eccentric characters in it . 
they're just stupid . 
and the actors are all good ones . 
tommy lee jones is great , an oscar winner , and a member of the men in black ( my vote for what should be the coolest movie of the summer ) . 
anne heche is a good indy actress . 
don cheadle stole the disappointing " devil in a blue dress " from denzel's feet . 
and gaby's one of the few good teenage actors . 
but they get nothing to do but act dumb and scream at what's going on . 
they do their best , god bless them , but they're all lost in the fake magma ( only don cheadle gets an interesting part and he's the greatest part of the film ) . 
there's no real suspense here 'cause you don't care about anyone . 
i actually was rooting for gaby's character to get killed so tommy lee jones wouldn't have to keep saving her ( he did it like thirty times ! ) . 
and there are no interesting sites in l . a . that we see get destroyed . 
part of the fun of disaster films is watching sites get toppled or destroyed or whatever . 
in " independence day , " the best part ( other than judd hirsch ) was watching the white house and empire state building get blown up by the aliens . 
that was cool . 
watching really fake-looking magma plow down the street is not . 
okay , so the film's not devoid of merit . 
as i already stated , don cheadle was great and the cast does their best . 
and there's this really moronic scene which looks cool . 
john carrol lynch ( norm from " fargo " ) goes on a subway car to save people but the lava comes and surrounds it . 
he has one guy who's wounded and could make it . 
he could throw the guy and jump and still survive . 
but no ! ! ! 
he has to go and inanely jump and land right in the middle of the lava . 
here's the cool sight : he melts . 
here's the dumb part of it : he somehow manages to throw the man to safety as his legs are melting . 
cool sight . 
no logic . 
but cool sight . 
the volcano erupts twice and for some reason , the film ends there . 
they aren't worried about it eruting again , they just go home to their toppled homes . 
but to tell the truth , i was glad they didn't go on . 
i was hoping the film was over after the first eruption ended . 
my god , it was actually painful to sit through this little 102 minute long film . 
i haven't seen " dante's peak " but i've heard it's a masterpiece compared to this . 
if you want to see a cool disaster flick that's inane but interesting , rent " the towering inferno " with steve mcqueen , paul newman , and the schweppervescent o . j . 
simpson ( he saves a cat ) . 
if you want to waste your time watching a boring , stupid disaster flick ( literally , it almost grossed half of its budget ) , see this . 
but i warned you . 
the yet-to-be-released krippendorf's tribe is being marketed as a family comedy , but buyer beware . 
this movie can't make up its mind . 
is it a family comedy with vulgar references to both the male and female bodies , menstruation , circumcision , and sex that would make any parents squirm at the thought of having their child next to them ? 
or is it an adult comedy approached with such immaturity that only adolescents will appreciate the effort ? 
either way , " unbalanced " is the word to stamp on this hit and miss and miss and miss effort . 
the premise is catchy - widowed anthropology professor james krippendorf ( richard dreyfuss ) has spent the past two years " getting over " the death of his wife , neglecting key research and squandering grant money on personal living expenses . 
now it's time to show what he's achieved in those two years , and he has absolutely nothing to show for it . 
with a fabricated tale of studying a previously undiscovered tribe in new guinea , krippendorf petitions for new funds while hiding the fact that the previous $100 , 000 grant was spent on trips to mcdonald's . 
but when his " discovery " becomes the latest craze among colleagues , the professor finds he must do more than talk about the tribe - he must create it . 
with the aid of his three children , the headstrong teen shelly ( natasha lyonne of everyone says i love you ) , the slightly younger mickey ( gregory smith ) , and the nine-year-old edmund ( carl michael lindner ) , the " shelmikedmu " tribe ( named from the first half of each child's name ) is born , and videos quickly produced in krippendorf's backyard are passed off as stunning documentary footage of the newly found new guinea tribe . 
despite the professor's wishes , the buzz surrounding his discovery only grows , due in greatest part to veronica micelli ( jenna elfman ) , an overly vivacious ( and voluptuous ) anthropologist who barges her way into the discovery and basically deems herself krippendorf's main assistant . 
hungry for recognition , micelli sets up interviews , lectures , etc . in an effort to make this the biggest sociological event in history , a sure fire way to go down in the history books . 
krippendorf , on the other hand , is seeing himself go down a jail cell corridor , not in history books , and with each new lecture , he must come up with something impressive to unleash about the tribe - mating habits , domestic structure , etc . thru fumbling improvisation , and often some quick thinking from his oldest son , krippendorf makes it thru each new lecture , but only creates more and more interest in the highly unique tribe . 
on the opposing end is krippendorf's arch rival , ruth allen ( lily tomlin ) , an arrogant professor whose jealousy drives her on a mission to disprove the existance of the non-existent tribe . 
it's a cute idea , and approached with a more subtle ( and mature ) style , krippendorf's tribe could've been a real winner . 
sadly , the mostly-misfired toilet humor , overly comical musical score ( by bruce broughton ) , and sugar coated sentiments ( all the key ingredients of a " family comedy " ) just aren't the right tone for this film . 
cut that crap out , add some razor sharp dialogue and witty sociological perceptions and you've got a good start . 
at the state it's in now , you've got something along the lines of medicine man meets mrs . 
doubtfire meets dumb & dumber , and that's not a concoction anyone should be overly anxious to try . 
the overall product here is a highly forgettable cup of " average " , with a few laugh-out-loud moments and a great big gap in between them . 
most of the characters are surprisingly two-dimensional , and the only one who seems to exhibit any real acting effort ( lyonne ) seems to go greatly unappreciated . 
director todd holland has gone about making this film in all the wrong ways . 
it's stuck in limbo between disney family fare ( jungle 2 jungle ) and potentially hilarious adult comedy ( a fish called wanda ) . 
it's this unbalanced structure that really knocks it down a grade , and it's a brutal drop . 
a strong warning to parents : forget the impression given by advertisements , do you want to take your kids to a film that has a woman asking a man if he finds her attractive merely because she's holding his penis ? 
yes , it's put that bluntly ! 
just be warned - this is merely one example of the many shocking subjects to be brought up in the film , and others might not be as tame . 
it's been hours since i returned from the much anticipated sci-fi opus `mission to mars' , and i can still detect the reek of moldy cheddar . 
why ? 
the movie is a shoddy cheesefest full of digital eye candy , stapled carelessly onto a flimsy screenplay which somehow manages to leapfrog the great promise of a space opera , instead shooting for the angle of a feel-good science fiction drama more akin to `2001 : a space odyssey' . 
i got the feeling that most of my fellow movie-going patrons were expecting another `armageddon' . 
but no , `mission to mars' certainly isn't one large action sequence about colossal disaster . 
this is a supposedly thoughtful , family-friendly space flick in which the apocalyptic excitement takes a back seat to visual elegance and uplifting drivel . 
you have been warned . 
of course , crafting a tightly claustrophobic space drama is not impossible ( see `apollo 13' for an excellent example ) , but few directors possess the skill and craftsmanship to pull it off without seriously scarring their reputation . 
brian de palma has enough directorial expertise and visual wizardry up his sleeve to pull it off . 
when he gets his hands on an intelligent , systematically practical script like `the untouchables' or `mission : impossible' , the director has the ability to create a sound technical achievement ( although his overly indulgent style becomes bothersome more than occasionally ) . 
of course , there's also the inexcusable string of crap that has carried his name ( including `snake eyes' and the notorious bomb `the bonfire of the vanities' ) . . . . 
all of which makes me want to call de palma the most talented hack in hollywood . 
that term may be too harsh , but if i were judging him solely on the perpetual waste of talent that is `mission to mars' , my choice of words would have been slightly less lenient . 
if i were gary sinise , i wouldn't touch de palma with a 10-foot pole . 
sinise is a wonderful , wonderful actor , but after appearing in `snake eyes' and this vomit-inducing sham , i'm sure he wouldn't want to risk the embarrassment of a third collaboration . 
the academy award-winner plays nasa astronaut jim mcconnell , a man who recently lost his wife ( kim delaney ) and is apparently psychologically unfit for an upcoming space shuttle mission to mars ( oops , forgot to mention the year - 2020 ) . 
after a barbecue get-together for the astronauts , we cut to luc goddard ( don cheadle ) and his team , who are already taking measurements and calculations on the red planet . 
suddenly , a towering formation of rocks and soil - probably best dubbed a `sand tornado' - appears and creates a whirlwind of suction . 
for some reason , the astronauts just stand there calmly to admire this , as if it were a lovely piece of art . 
the team is killed within seconds , expect for luc , who was able to send one final transmission and may still be alive . 
immediately , a second mission - consisting of astronauts mcconnell , husband and wife woody and terri blake ( tim robbins and connie nielsen ) and phil ohlmyer ( jerry o'connell ) - are dispatched to rescue luc and discover the mysterious secret of planet mars . 
let's put the `secret' on hold for now , and discuss the trip there . 
it is explained , whether scientifically accurate or not ( probably not ) , that a trip to mars takes roughly six months . 
i'm not sure why the quartet of screenwriters behind `m2m' didn't capitalize on this juicy opportunity of creating tension and claustrophobia . 
instead , we join the team during their final days aboard the ship . 
what happened during the five months prior to this ? 
did they just play cards and tell dirty jokes ? 
still , there are few nicely tense moments ( maybe the only in the movie ) during the time-frame involving a fuel leak . 
depalma's direction is quite good in these scenes , although the score by ennio morricone is largely inconsistent ( organ music in space ? 
c'mon ) . 
there's a few good , imaginative ideas in the landslide of cheese , a sad realization that causes me to sigh out loud . 
it's a colossal bummer that `mission to mars' is poorly assembled and laughably written , with a dubious and supremely silly finale that will only satisfy dedicated optimists . 
as mentioned before , anyone looking for some disaster-movie carnage is going to feel savagely disappointed . . . 
maybe even cheated . 
after the unbelievably hokey final shot ( with the words ? the end' somehow adding insult to injury ) , a few audience members made the effort to boo and hiss at the screen . 
others muttered obscenities , shaking their heads in disbelief while mumbling `jeez , that sucked . ' 
okay , it did suck . 
but you have to show the actors some sympathetic mercy . . . 
after all , they do pretty well . 
sinise is sincere and effective in many of his scenes , robbins and nielsen wholeheartedly convince as a loving nasa couple , and funnyman o'connell - well , he has a couple lines are actually amusing ( and intentionally so ) . 
the digital effects accompanying the sand tornado sequence are quite impressive . 
so , by golly , where did this `mission' go wrong ? 
looking back on the appalling experience , i would say in practically every conduit and crevasse it could have . 
while watching `mission to mars' , my suggestion would be to immediately abort , or better yet , don't even strap yourself in for lift-off . 
despite its exceedingly well-done visual effects , 1995's original species was one big hunk of sci-fi cheese , from the writing to the feeble performances . 
so , coming from such b-grade roots , its sequel's stunning ineptitude is not terribly surprising , yet at the same time it is . 
it would not have been difficult at all for the people behind species ii to top the hokey original , yet they have somehow managed to fabricate something just as bad , if not even worse . 
something is clearly amiss when the back door left open for a sequel in species--a sewer rat becomes not quite of this earth after eating a body part from the exploded alien/human hybrid sil--is never entered into ( perhaps that was left for species iii--though i'm not giving away anything when i say that this installment has an open back door of its own ) . 
the alien fun and games begin this time when a three-person astronaut crew returning from mars inadvertently carries within their soil samples deadly alien dna that eventually infects the mission captain , patrick ross ( justin lazard , late of cbs's short-lived soap of a few years back , central park west/cpw ) . 
this alien dna is not identical to that which created the original film's sil , but it's close enough , and upon arrival on earth patrick is mating like crazy , engaging in bloody sex with just about every woman he can find . 
meanwhile , scientist dr . laura baker ( the returning marg helgenberger ) has created a clone of sil named eve ( natasha henstridge again ) for research purposes . 
it doesn't take long for eve to sense another alien presence , which send her libido into hyperdrive . 
it's up to laura and her former partner , bounty hunter press lennox ( michael madsen , another returnee ) ; and patrick's uninfected shipmate dennis gamble ( mykelti williamson ) to find patrick before the in-heat eve does . 
 " this isn't the x-files , goddammit ! " 
exclaims one character in the early going . 
in terms of quality , he's absolutely right , but he's also wrong . 
the new alien first appears as an otherworldly oozing sludge that causes patrick's pupils to dilate once he's infected . 
looks and sounds an awful lot like the x-files's " black cancer " to me . 
but that's not the only source director peter medak and writer chris brancato steal from . 
species was already a ripoff of alien , but medak makes the cribbing much more blatant than the original's director , roger donaldson , did . 
human patrick is given a tongue that also has a tongue within itself , and his alien form more closely resembles the alien than eve's alien body ( which ironically was designed by alien designer h . r . giger ) . 
a large alien hive that our heros douse with a substance fired from large guns ? 
aliens sans flamethrowers . 
the visual effects were by far the best thing about species , and the sequel's effects crew at steve johnson's xfx inc . keeps that high-quality tradition alive ; no cheap-looking lost in space cgi here . 
after the effects , the original's best asset was the fresh presence of henstridge . 
however , medak and brancato have no idea what exactly to do with her for this installment . 
at one point she's called on to play alien " empath " ? la forest whitaker in the original , but for most of the duration she's holed up in a glass cell . 
by the time the big breakout so prominently featured in the trailer actually takes place , the film is well into its home stretch . 
so the rest of the time we are treated to patrick , played with little zest by lazard . 
one problem with the first film was that the deadly , horny , but innocent-at-heart sil was too sympathetic ; no such problem with patrick , who comes off as a cocky pretty boy before the alien takes control . 
the rest of the cast also fails to add much , but the writing can be faulted for that . 
helgenberger and madsen go through the motions , but they are already hampered by the clich ? d development that somewhere between the two films , the once-linked laura and press stopped getting along . 
williamson suffers the worst indignity . 
he tries his best to enliven the token african-american role , but how can anyone recite insulting , derivative lines such as " i'm gonna get african on someone's ass " and not appear ridiculous ? 
but species ii's worst crime is being a thoroughly uninteresting piece of work . 
at least the original featured plenty to laugh at--unaccountably awful performances by the otherwise fine actors ben kingsley and whitaker , and the sight of helgenberger's character performing fellatio on madsen's , for a start . 
but the filmmakers do not display any discernable effort at all , let alone the misguided effort that is required for something to reach the camp level . 
for all the blood and gore , nudity , and sex thrown in , species ii is , quite simply , a vapid bore . 
the marvelous british actor derek jacobi stars in writer and director john maybury's love is the devil about the popular modern artist francis bacon . 
as always , jacobi's acting is impeccable , but the movie tries hard and succeeds at being unentertaining and opaque . 
the movie convincingly argues that francis , played by jacobi , was a completely despicable and vain individual , but it never provides any insight into his work or any motivation for his attitude . 
when interviewed by a fawning talk show host , francis calls his style " chance brushstrokes . " 
starting with a burglary of francis's flat , the film uses loud sound effects that sound like they were lifted from a cheap horror movie . 
the camera shots are heavy on the avant-garde angles -- lots of wide-angle close-ups and distorted shots filmed through colored-glass reflections . 
the director is much more interested in filmmaking style than in the substance of the story with the result being a sterile examination of a lonely and vain man . 
daniel craig , in a lifeless performance , plays the burglar and boxer , george dyer . 
when francis lays eyes on him after the break-in , francis promises not to call the police if he'll stay for sex . 
he stays for the entire movie but never respects the man with whom he shares a bed . 
he thinks that francis's paintings have " no bloody use , " and the movie presents no counterargument . 
writer maybury barely outlines francis's character , and george and the rest of the supporting cast remain a complete enigma . 
we learn little of george other than francis's reason for liking him -- george's " amorality and innocence . " 
francis's love of sadomasochism is shown early and often . 
 " boxing is such a marvelous aperitif for sex , " he reflects to george on the way to watch a boxing match . 
as the fighter's head is sliced open with a heavy blow , the camera cuts to a gleeful francis whose own head is soaked by the flying blood . 
francis appears to be in complete ecstasy . 
another of francis's favorite activities is viewing old movies of atrocities . 
as the carnage mounts , we witness an orgasmically happy francis in the audience . 
in a film that tries obsessively to shock , one dream sequence portrays a family in a car accident . 
francis's mind slowly examines every bloody limb of the mother , the father , and the boy . 
sometimes the script throws us tidbits of francis's wisdom which illuminate little while merely sounding insightful . 
 ( " i'm optimistic by nature . 
i'm optimistic about nothing . " 
 " loneliness is my only true companion . " ) 
we learn more details about francis's makeup techniques than about the man himself . 
he prefers shoe polish for his hair and sink cleaning powder for his teeth . 
full of metaphorical interpretations , the film's best scene occurs late one night when george has to get up to go to the bathroom . 
mistaking francis's picture of a toilet for the genuine article , he urinates on it and then crawls back into bed contentedly . 
like a parody of a bad art house movie , love is the devil has horrid characters filmed bizarrely and confusingly by a director who is much more interested in technique than storytelling . 
by the end , the audience hasn't learned any more than it could have in a three-minute sketch . 
love is the devil runs 1 : 30 . 
the film is not rated but should be considered nc-17 for violence , profanity , graphic sex , nudity and sadomasochism and is unacceptable for most teenagers . 
 " payback , " brian helgeland's inauspicious directing debut ( coincidentally , he previously penned the award-winning screenplay for 1997's " l . a . confidential " ) , is a wildly uneven and thoroughly unpleasant revenge thriller that takes one idea---a movie with non-stop violence , death , and villains---and runs with it , or should i say , barely manages to crawl away with it . 
mel gibson , in yet another disappointing picture ( " conspiracy theory " and " lethal weapon 4 , " anyone ? ) , stars as the reprehensible villain/hero , porter , a man who becomes determined to get his 50% share of $140 , 000 , which he stole in a robbery , back when his partner-in-crime ( gregg henry ) and drug-addicted wife ( deborah kara unger ) double-cross him , shoot him , and leave him for dead . 
porter is not dead , however---not by a long shot---as he quickly rehabilitates and , along with his loyal prositute girlfriend , rosie ( maria bello ) , sets out to make everyone involved in the scam pay . 
the tagline for " payback " is , " get ready to root for the bad guy , " and sure enough , this is true , as pretty much every significant character who appears is crooked in some way . 
i wouldn't have a problem with this offbeat detail if the painfully thin story had been of any interest , but it wasn't , and therefore , i found myself having an especially laborious time investing myself into a wide array of character that have absolutely no redeeming qualities whatsoever . 
no attempt is made to flesh the roles into three-dimensional characters , and there are no vacant signs that anyone has any sort of humanity in them . 
just because the protagonist , a " bad guy , " is played by mel gibson doesn't mean i will " root for him , " and i didn't . 
quite the contrary , every person in the movie deserved to die a gory death ( although some of them did , anyway , just to spice up the dull proceedings ) . 
since none of the respectable actors in " payback " actually have human beings to play , only one performance managed to stand out . 
lucy alexis liu ( of t . v . 's " ally mcbeal " ) , who plays a spicy s&m dominatrix , brightens up every scene she is in , and has a definite flair for comedy , something i would have liked to have seen more of , since most of the humor fell with a resounding splat . 
meanwhile , gibson , who is perfectly fine here , sleepwalks through a role that is not the least bit challenging . 
unger , who made an impression in 1997's " the game , " is surprisingly wasted and it is difficult to see why she took such a part since she disappears ten minutes in , and only has two purproses : ( 1 ) to get high on heroin , and ( 2 ) because she plays a key part in an early flashback . 
finally , kris kristofferson appears in a throwaway role during the climax , and this unnecessary plot development sticks out like a sore thumb ( tellingly , he didn't appear in the original cut of the film , but was cast when extensive reshoots took place months later ) . 
like most action movies , the star often takes a licking but keeps on ticking . 
in the course of the 102-minute running time of " payback , " porter is shot three times in the back , hit by a van , beaten up , and has his feet smashed with a sledgehammer . 
and guess what ? 
not only does he survive the whole ordeal , but he is happy-go-lucky in the penultimate sequence ( and can still walk ! ) , 
even though he looks like he had recently substituted for a punching bag . 
 " payback " is not , in any way , an entertaining film , even though i am sure the makers hoped it would be with all the graphic carnage that goes on , but take away that violence and what you are basically left with is a blank screen . 
perhaps director helgeland would have been smart to consider this , so he could have at least added a few worthwhile elements , like a fresh storyline and characters whom you could even remotely stand to be around for a few hours . 
did i do something bad ? 
i must have , because sitting through this movie was sheer punishment . 
here's the plot . 
ricky ( jeff goldblum ) is producer of the good-buy network , one of those 24-hour home shopping channels . 
the new boss ( robert loggia ) plans to can ricky's behind if he doesn't turn the previous months' flat sales numbers around , and to add to his problems , ricky also has to work with kate ( kelly preston ) , the ivy league wunderkind whom the boss has brought with him . 
kate and ricky don't get along and don't have any great ideas until they meet g ( eddie murphy ) , a spiritualist who sees something positive in everything . 
his soothing voice and simple logic makes people feel good , and it's this quality that will make g the new gbn television star and the key to the network's success . 
the first problem is a flaw in the plot . 
sure , g makes people feel good . 
sure , we're told that most people feel guilty after buying an impulse item , no matter how wealthy they might be , and i'll even believe that g talks a talk that allows people to feel good about what they've bought . 
but , hey , that's after they've bought it . 
why do sales skyrocket the first time g is on camera ? 
far from trying to sell the product , g instead blathers on about how you don't even need the thing . 
someone please tell me how this is supposed to move merchandise in the first place . 
you might say that people feel good about what they've bought , so they come back and by more , but due to the simple fact that the first round of sales in inexplicable , i'm not convinced this is what the filmmakers had in mind . 
the whole movie is therefore seriously undermined because the key point in the plot is never credible . 
another problem is in the humor . 
you know , if you see that eddie murphy is in a movie , i think it is not unreasonable for you to expect that the film is a comedy . 
whoa , partner , are you in for a surprise . 
holy man is not funny . 
murphy , the one asset you'd think this movie has ( remember how they brought him in at the last minute to save best defense ? 
- then again , maybe you don't ) is seriously reigned in . 
the script gives him almost nothing to work with , and it seems as though director stephen herek kept him toned down so that the other actors in the film wouldn't be left as window dressing . 
there's only one moment in the film where murphy is allowed to let loose , and it lasts for three shouted words , which seem totally out of place as a result . 
pathetic . 
in all , there are about three jokes that work in the entire picture , and they're not even that great . 
as a side note , there are some cameo appearances such as dan marino pitching a contraption which allows you to cook off of your car engine , and james brown introducing a medic-alert device that shouts " help me ! " 
just like the hardest working man in show business at the push of a button , but these never cause your personal laugh-o-meter to rise above the level of mild bemusement . 
 " well , " you ask , " surely there must be some convincing performances to make up for the lack of humor . " 
think again , buckwheat . 
jeff goldblum disappoints . 
kelly preston is flat ( but not like that ) . 
robert loggia , in the kind of role for which he has been virtually typecast , can't do anything with it . 
the script is part of the problem , but these actors don't even look like they believe in the move they're making . 
they look a lot like they're bored . 
just like the audience . 
so what do you have when the humor is absent from your comedy , and the acting is like the siberian steppes ? 
a film that drags more than a dropped anchor . 
but wait ! 
as if these problems don't make the film slow enough , the screenplay's pacing makes the movie even slower ! 
it takes the entire first half hour to establish the movie's premise , then more time as the film wades through a tortuous ( and seemingly mandatory ) romance between ricky and kate , and a sub-plot involving a conniving pr man ( eric mccormack ) who wants to discredit g and take over ricky's job as producer . 
when the pr guy's plan is foiled , the film is climaxes , we're treated to that little epilogue , and then we can all go home , right ? 
wrong . 
the movie goes on for another half hour ! 
continental drift is the indy 500 compared to the pace of holy man ! 
the only thing holy about holy man will surely be the number of people exclaiming " holy ! @#% that movie was awful ! " 
this one is for the truly pious . 
plot : something about a bunch of kids going into a haunted house and playing out parodies of other horror and non-horror movies . 
oh yeah , there's also something about a ghost possessing the mansion and shit , but trust me , you won't care much about the " plot " in this film . . . 
critique : parody movies either work or they don't and this one just doesn't work ! 
the laughs aren't as pronounced this time around , the energy level , the gags and all of the characters just seem to be going through the motions here . 
it's like they were all in a hurry to finish the film or something ( wink , wink ) . 
and the scariest part of it all ? 
check out the number of screenwriters it took to pen this puppy : seven ! 
i say again , it took seven people to write 82-minutes worth of fart jokes , half-assed stunts and spoofs of films other than horror . 
now i'm not exactly sure if each of the writers wrote their own parts separately or just tossed " funny sketch " ideas out there while smoking the chronic themselves , but the end result is a film that basically plays out like an extended skit on " saturday night live " . 
there are a couple of funny one-liners , but mostly just rehashed one-joke scenes , a lot of dead silence and lame gags . 
add to that the very unoriginal title and movie poster and you gotta start asking yourself if anybody was even trying here ( the film's website isn't even up yet ! ! ! 
what the f * * * ? ! ? ) . 
i do however have to give it up to james woods , the man who opens up this movie with the funniest parody of them all ( the exorcist take-off-- miss this and you've missed any reason to see the flick ) . 
i especially liked his one-liner as he walked in to see the possessed woman's head turning . 
very funny ! 
unfortunately , the film plummets straight down after that , with dumb parodies of many teen flicks that have nothing to do with horror such as save the last dance and dude , where's my car , and other action movies like charlie's angels and mission impossible 2 . now help me figure this one out , will you ? 
isn't this supposed to be a parody film of horror movies ? ! ? 
 ( or maybe that's just the title of the film f-ing with my head ) . 
well , i'm sorry to have to say this but the only horror in this film is its lame-ass script ! 
the wayans brothers should have known better than to look towards the weinstein brothers ( money ) instead of the zucker brothers ( comedy ) for this sequel . 
unfortunately for us , all we're left with here is a skeleton of a film which might've been funny , had it been worked over a few more times , tightened up here and there , and been injected with more solid laughs . 
but as things stand now , there is no doubt in my mind that the obvious greed to capitalize on the success of last year's film has led everyone down this path , so screw them for not trying as hard ( critically speaking , of course ) . 
you should all be ashamed of yourselves for not putting enough " real " effort into this chop-job and for not providing your fans with the ultimate of your talents . 
pooh on you ! 
 ( that's telling 'em , joblo ! 
sheesh ) 
btw , i'm allotting one point alone to actress kathleen robertson , whose massive breasts and skanky g-string had me chompin' at the bit . 
you go , girl ! 
everyone else . . . stay ! 
where's joblo coming from ? 
airplane ( 10/10 ) - airplane ii ( 10/10 ) - galaxy quest ( 8/10 ) - hannibal ( 7/10 ) - the haunting ( 3/10 ) - mafia ( 5/10 ) - naked gun ( 8/10 ) - scary movie ( 8/10 ) - top secret ( 9/10 ) 
the cartoon is way better . 
that's the bottom line on disney's incredibly hyped live action version of its 1961 animated feature . 
the alliance between disney and slapstick king john hughes has produced a frenetic " home alone " with puppies , and not much else . 
when production of this remake was announced , the big question seemed to be " why ? 
the original cartoon still works , so what's the point ? " 
the answer , it appears , is to give disney an excuse for yet another massive merchandising campaign . 
the story , for those of you who missed childhood , is simple . 
two dalmatians , pongo and perdy , fall in love at first sight . 
they drag their " human pets " together , and in a short time both couples marry . 
the heavenly match-ups turn chaotic when pongo and perdy's new-born pups are stolen ; their dog-napping engineered by the evil cruella devil , who wants them for their pelts . 
everyone in the animal kingdom then joins in a frantic effort to save the puppies . 
in the original movie , the animated pooches had a broad range of facial expressions and distinct personalities . 
we also could hear them talk , which quickly established a crucial element to the charm of the film , the dog's view of humans as their pets . 
in the new version , the dogs are mute and expressionless . 
hughes attempts to give them character with repeated shots of the dalmatians draping their heads over each other and licking their faces and necks . 
while he drew the desired " aww , they're so cute " reaction from the audience , it was quickly followed by several people whispering " i wonder what kind of food they smeared on the dog's heads to get them licking like that ? " 
the canines' lack of personality would be easier to take if the human beings had a little . 
joely richardson and jeff daniels are stunningly bland in their lead roles . 
in previous films , daniels successfully played off his white bread persona . 
in " something wild " , he revealed the rebellious thrill-seeker beneath his neutral demeanor . 
in " terms of endearment " , his hapless appearance masked a cold , manipulative womanizer . 
here , he and richardson are so consistently bland that it's a wonder their images even stick to the film . 
glenn close , however , has no problems establishing a distinct personality . 
as the villainous icon cruella devil , she tears up the screen in a deliciously over-the-top performance . 
close matches the intensity of the animated cruella by becoming a cartoon herself . 
with a two-tone fright wig , red gloves with long nails attached to the fingertips , garish animal skin outfits and stiletto heels , close bursts through her scenes like a force of nature . 
she's clearly having a ball playing this monstrous icon , and her wicked glee is infectious . 
when she spits out lines like " you've won the battle , but i'm about to win the wardrobe ! , " 
the film comes briefly to life . 
 " 101 dalmatians " is crammed with john hughes' typical heavy-handed approach to comedy . 
after an ingenuous opening showing pongo's morning routine as he gets daniels prepared for the day , the film quickly tumbles into lame slapstick as the pooch drags daniels on a careening trek through a city park . a little slapstick goes a long way , but hughes just keeps laying it on . 
the second half of the film , where local animals team up to rescue 99 nondescript dalmatian puppies from devil and her henchmen , is a tedious home alone clone , with the bad guys enduring a variety of sadistic assaults worthy of an itchy & scratchy cartoon , including a thug getting his testicles fried on an electric fence . 
 " 101 dalmatians " has cute puppies and a hoot of a performance from glenn close , but not enough to warrant enduring third rate slapstick , bland characters , and unconvincing animatronic raccoons high-fiving one another . 
rent the cartoon ! 
 " spawn " may be somewhat of an older film . 
in fact it will probably be on video before anyone who hasn't seen it will finally get to see it ( that is , if they see it ) . 
but i managed to catch it before it made it's way out of theaters and into the world of rentals and , god forbid , video cassette purchasing . 
it wasn't the worst film of year by any means . 
it isn't even on the top 5 of the worst films of the year . 
but it did manage to top the bottom five of the bottom ten , which , in simpler terms , means it comes in at number 6 on my " worst of 1997 " list . 
the only reason it doesn't come in lower is thanks to the special effects , which might actually have been some of the best of the year . 
performances , however , were either wooden or , for the most part , unforgivingly campy . 
in fact , this film shows no signs of attempting to avoid campiness ! 
even the editing seemed to boast a campy quality . 
i don't know how to explain that one ; it wasn't exactly choppy , but something about it seemed . 
 . 
 . 
well , annoyingly unprofessional . 
john leguizamo almost makes it as clown , but not quite . 
he is the only character who provides the audience with any laughs that can honestly be called intentional . 
but the main problem i found with " spawn " , as with most films that wind up on my " worst of " lists , is that it was just plain boring . 
i wouldn't even say there was a climax to the film . 
sure , it had the big battle scene at the end , but the only excitement felt was that the movie might be nearing a conclusion . 
never too soon , the movie did conclude in a very simple , disappointing way . 
even though it's one of the shorter movies i've seen this year , it's one that i would definitely not want to subject myself to sitting thru again . 
like i said , the special effects are the only reason that this film should have any sense of pride , no matter how small . 
i was impressed with the opening sequence , so long as i didn't allow the melodramatic voice-over and lobotomizing editing to get to me . 
and batman has nothing on the spectacular visuals spawn's outfit created . 
but even the effects got tiresome during the final scenes , which looked quite a bit like a modern video game . 
who knows if " spawn : the video game " wasn't part of the plan from the beginning ? 
keeping in mind that the film was based on a comic book makes it somewhat more approachable , and in a very small amount , makes up for the cheeziness of it all . 
but none of this movie's saving graces can it make it something i'd recommend seeing , no matter what the price of admission . 
this movie is definitely not for young children , which shouldn't really be a problem seeing as how only teenagers , if anyone , would likely find it appealing . 
if you really want to catch a movie , there are many better ones out there , no matter what your tastes might be ! 
trust me ! 
 " spawn " has very little to offer even the most avid moviegoers ! 
from a major league baseball radio broadcast , featuring play-by- play man harry canary and color man whitey hashbrown , with special guest commentator james berardinelli . 
hc : as we go to the top of the 8th , we're joined in the booth by film critic james berardinelli , who's here fresh from seeing the new baseball movie , major league : back to the minors , the third in the popular saga taking a lighter look at the majors . 
nice to see you , jim . 
as a big baseball fan and a movie reviewer , can you give us the scoop on the new flick ? 
jb : my opinion : the producers should have stopped while they were ahead , and that was nine years ago . 
one entry was definitely enough , and i'm surprised there was a third after the anemic showing and low quality of major league 2 . this latest installment has all the earmarks of something that should have been released direct-to-video . 
it's worse than a mediocre made-for-tv feature . 
i should also mention that this movie likely won't play all that well in cleveland . 
now that the real indians are perennial contenders , they have been replaced by the minnesota twins as the cinematic sadsacks . 
actually , most of the action involves the twins' aaa minor league club , the buzz , rather than the actual major league franchise . 
hc : sorry to interrupt , jim , but we still have to do play-by-play for the game on the field . 
leading off this inning is john warren . 
he steps into the batter's box and takes kent's pitch low for ball one . 
wh : so , the story's strictly minor league , right ? 
what's it about ? 
jb : scott bakula , the guy from quantum leap , plays career minor league pitcher gus cantrell . 
when twins owner roger dorn , once again portrayed by corbin bernsen , needs a new manager for his aaa team , he offers the job to gus , who is now faced with two daunting tasks : turn the team around and groom hot prospect downtown anderson ( played by walt goggins ) for a promotion to " the show . " 
with the help of former major leaguers pedro cerrano ( dennis haysbert ) , rube baker ( eric bruskotter ) , and isuro tanaka ( takaaki ishibashi ) , gus gets the buzz on the right track . 
in fact , he is so successful that he earns the enmity of the jealous manager of the big-league club , leonard huff ( played with over-the-top relish by ted mcginley ) . 
soon , dorn has arranged an exhibition game that pits gus' overachieving group against huff's overpaid , last-place bunch . 
wh : can we guess who wins ? 
jb : the results have all the suspense of watching the videotape of a game when you've already seen the box score . 
on top of that , none of the mock-ups are presented with much flair . 
they're not just boring ; they're lackluster . 
but the major league movies have never been about drama or tension ; they've been about using baseball situations to generate laughs . 
hc : warren fouls off a fastball . 
1 and 1 . 
wh : are there lots of yuks in this one ? 
jb : not one , from start to finish . 
i enjoyed the first major league because it was reasonably fresh and funny . 
okay , a lot of the jokes were sophomoric , but they made me laugh . 
the two sequels haven't just been stale , but their humor quotient has been abysmally low . 
even bob uecker's once-sharp one-liners have turned lame , and they're the closest the film comes to being even vaguely amusing . 
hc : here's the 1-1 pitch . 
looooooong drive ? fair or foul ? foul ball ! 
the count goes to 1 and 2 . 
wh : does the film at least get the baseball details correct ? 
jb : yes . 
there aren't any glaring errors like there were in one of the best-ever baseball movies , the natural . 
but i'd gladly trade a technically accurate film for one with a good story , believable characters , or even a little genuine humor . 
heck , the naked gun is a better baseball comedy than major league : back to the minors . 
wh : it's nice to see old friends one more time , isn't it ? 
like cerrano , tanaka , and dorn . 
jb : depends on whether you really care that anyone is back . 
there aren't any real characters here ? just an assortment of cliched oddballs . 
yeah , the voodoo hitter , the catcher who can't throw back to the pitcher , the japanese player , and the conceited player-turned-owner have all returned , but who really cares ? 
they have no depth . 
notable absences include tom berenger's veteran and charlie sheen's " wild thing . " 
we don't really miss them , though . 
hc : breaking ball , low and outside . 
2 and 2 . 
wh : so you're saying that we should give this one a miss ? 
jb : that's right . 
to use baseball terminology , it's a three-pitch strikeout . 
if you're looking for a good movie that involves baseball , try popping the natural , field of dreams , bull durham , or even the first major league into the vcr . 
actually , this is an oddly-timed release , since baseball fans are likely to be spending more time in parks than in theaters . 
even the minor league seasons are already underway . 
don't bother with major league : back to the minors . 
it's a wretched time- waster . 
wh : thanks for the advice . 
jb : you're welcome . 
hc : and here's the 2-2 pitch . 
fouled back , right into this booth . 
hey , jim , heads up ! 
oops . 
somebody better get him some ice for that . 
he may be good at deflecting bad baseball movies , but he needs to learn not to duck into foul balls . 
odd how warren seemed to aim that ball right at him , almost as if he has a grudge to settle . 
anyway , back to the action on the field ? 
it's time to take cover . 
after a hiatus of about fifteen years , the disaster movie has come back with renewed zest . 
in early 1997 , there were no less than three movies about volcanoes alone , one on television and two in the theaters , with dante's peak and volcano in heavy competition for the moviegoing dollar . 
of the two , i had heard that dante's peak was the better film , so i decided to check it out when it was released on video . 
the film begins with a slow motion scene of people in a third world country trying to evacuate their little town . 
the town is being covered in ash and sulfuric water from what we presume is a volcanic eruption . 
flaming rocks of various sizes also fall from the sky , crushing homes and people . 
we see people panicking , people crying , and even horses rearing . 
it is a disaster of biblical proportions , signified to us by one person dragging a cross down a road . 
symbolism doesn't get much more blatant than that . 
we learn that harry dalton ( pierce brosnan ) , a volcanologist with the u . s . geological survey , was there with his wife when the eruption occurred . 
harry survived , but his wife did not . 
a few years later , harry is sent to investigate some unusual seismic activity detected near the small town of dante's peak , washington ( which , we are told , has been voted second most desirable place to live ( under 20 , 000 ) by the readers of money magazine ) . 
there harry meets rachel wando , a single mother of two who serves as mayor of dante's peak and proprietor of a small coffee shop . 
although the mayor doesn't seem to be alarmed by the presence of a man sent to determine if the mountain next to their town is going to blow up , a few members of the city council are . 
they are afraid that harry's presence is going to scare off an investor who has pledged to put millions of dollars into developing dante's peak . 
they would rather have any news of possible stirrings within the neighboring dormant volcano swept under the rug . 
however , when an amorous young couple takes a skinny-dip in the local hot springs , they turn up cooked by lava which bubbles up from a small fissure underneath . 
thus begins a chain of events leading up to the inevitable eruption . 
this film contains a number of cliches . 
the amorous couple is one . 
as soon as they doff their clothes , you know they're going to die . 
the town busybody and the abrasive mother-in-law make appearances , as does the death-defying dog . 
countless familiar scenarios only serve to make this film very predictable . 
watching the movie , i was able to not only anticipate each of the major plot elements , but some of the dialogue as well . 
unfortunate , since much of the dialog is terrible . 
for example , harry's boss , paul ( charles hallahan ) , and a team from the u . s . geological survey join harry to assess the situation . 
paul basically tells the townsfolk that harry's eruption predictions aren't cause for alarm . 
this causes harry to leave in a fit of rage , only to turn up the next day , ready for work . 
when paul asks harry why he stayed , he says with grim determination , " cause this town's in trouble and i'm the best man you've got . " 
even better is when harry is trying to explain the need to jolt the residents into leaving . 
he likens the situation to how a frog will jump out if dropped into a pot of boiling water . 
if the frog is in cold water which is gradually heated up , however , the frog won't move and will allow itself to be cooked . 
 " is that your recipe for frog soup ? " 
asks one of the team members . 
 " it's my recipe for disaster , " responds harry . 
dante's peak has a singular talent for pointing out the obvious . 
our heroes are in a boat in the middle of a lake which harry realizes the volcanic activity has turned to acid . 
mayor wando demonstrates her brilliant powers of deduction by proclaiming , in a very grave tone , " acid eats metal . " 
thanks for the tip . 
when we first see the u . s . geological survey building , there's a caption labeling it as such . 
this wouldn't have been so bad if it weren't for the fact that the caption is right above a sign on the building which reads , in large letters , " u . s . geological survey . " 
i suppose the caption is for people who can't read signs . 
although harry and mayor wando become an item by the end of the film , the viewer has no idea why . 
there is a severe lack of chemistry between the two characters , and the relationship seems rushed because of this . 
when they get close to kissing , i was asking myself , " why do they want to kiss ? 
were they even attracted to each other ? " 
if i were the mayor , i would sure think twice about kissing a guy who doesn't even crack a smile through the whole movie , trying to pull off the rough-yet-debonair act . 
who does he think he is ? 
james bond ? 
the eruption of the volcano feels similarly rushed . 
there are several " warning signs " prior to the eruption itself , but they are so lackluster and without suspense that we don't feel as if they are leading up to anything . 
for example , one of the survey team members makes his way down into the crater of the volcano in order to retrieve a remote controlled robot . 
a tremor occurs . 
does he plunge headlong to his death ? 
is he engulfed in lava which shoots up from below ? 
no , a couple of rocks fall on him and break his leg . 
the sole purpose of this scene seemed to be to set up the subsequent chopper rescue scene , which i suppose was intended to be dramatic as well . 
it wasn't . 
one plot thread left noticeably hanging was the investment in the town of dante's peak . 
in a disaster movie , there's usually one guy who's greedy enough to cover up the possibility of eruption/fire/earthquake/explosion/tsunami/tornado/meteorite , and usually gets killed by the disaster . 
it's okay , of course , because we all think he got what he deserved . 
if you're going to be unoriginal , you might as well go all the way . 
in dante's peak , the city councilmembers are concerned , but they don't really try hard enough . 
maybe the mayor's abrasive mother-in-law should have been the one . 
for no apparent reason , she snaps at harry for even positing that the volcano could erupt . 
perhaps her ancestors invested in some pompeii real estate . 
there are a couple of good things about this movie . 
the first is the scenery . 
there are panoramic shots of forests , lakes and mountains that are absolutely beautiful . 
the second is the special effects . 
they are the closest i've ever seen to a real pyroclastic eruption . 
but when elements which don't speak are going to be the best parts of your movie , you'd probably better rewrite the script . 
capsule : a ham-handed and over/underwritten morality play masquerading as entertainment , so muddled it doesn't even know what it's really advocating , if anything . 
a time to kill has been hailed as the best of the grisham adaptations , and it's easy to see why : it presents a strong , almost rancorously so , story ; it is full of good actors ( samuel l . jackson , matthew mcconaughey , sandra bullock , kevin spacey , charles dutton ) ; and it's ostensibly about some important social issue that we're all tangling with . 
it is not , however , a good movie , and all of the reasons i've listed above have something to do with why . 
right from the beginning , the movie is dead-set on stacking its deck as thoroughly and unrepentantly as possible . 
a pair of redneck whites , boozed and drugged out of their minds , kidnap a young black girl , abuse and rape her horribly , and leave her for dead . 
after their arrest , their father ( jackson ) takes an assault rifle and guns them down on the way to trial . 
mcconaughey is then drafted in as his lawyer , and the rest is somehow strangely predictable courtoom movie dramatics . 
the acting is not quite what it should be , given the cast we have . 
sandra bullock ( who is a good actress but not a serious one ) looks clueless ; spacey's accent switches itself on and off at random ( and he's given a totally thankless role to play as well , a role without an iota of depth ) ; and mcconaughey's role is stamped from the cardboard back of a cereal box . 
the most memorable role is donald sutherland's , and his is a bit part . 
i always consider it an index of a movie's desperation when it is able to present shocking and outlandish events , and somehow not have them generate an ounce of impact . 
there is one scene -- a riot outside the courtroom -- that should have created incredible tension , but winds up playing out like a textbook exercise on how not to deploy a scene like this . 
because the movie doesn't know what it's really about , it * can't * generate any genuine tension , and so it has to artifically inject tension through clumsy plotting . 
one of the ways it does this is by throwing in a whole subplot about a bunch of vicious kkk cross-burners -- which is tidied up so neatly that it borders on the nihilistic . 
i was reminded of the despicable betrayed , which tried to tart up a fundamentally empty story by injecting vile , graphic acts of racism as little more than an attention-getter . 
the movie immolates an enormous amount of its potential by making a few critical mistakes . 
first of all , the jackson character is not hard to judge ; there's no tension in his dilemma . 
he's self-admittedly guilty and should be sent to jail , no matter how moral his crusade . 
the old saw about how no court in the land would convict him , if he was white , is supposed to be the underlying theme of the movie , but it's never developed into an organic component of the story . 
it just sort of floats around on top while the movie grinds away furiously with its plot mechanics . 
another mistake is in motivational logic : by not having the two white thugs arraigned first -- or maybe tried and then dismissed from lack of evidence , say -- we have that much less empathy for jackson's character . 
i'm probably supposed to think that just because he had his daughter raped , we are * automatically * supposed to feel empathy for him , but that's precisely the kind of facile thinking that makes real justice impossible . 
 ( see the virgin spring for more on that note . ) 
is jackson's character then simply insane ? 
that prospect isn't given terribly serious treatment either . 
one of the most aggravating things about coutroom movies is how little they seem to know about how the law works , or how lawyers get their information . 
mcconaughey's character makes an important slipup late in the movie , when one of his witnesses turns out to have been convicted of a capital offense . 
how did the prosecution get this information ? 
how come he didn't get it ? 
the whole way these questions get handled are symptomatic of the movie's way of dealing with complex legal and moral questions in cheap screenwriterly slam-bang fashion . 
this is the biggest problem : the movie isn't about jackson's character , or his dilemma , or this case , or any of its ( frequently interesting despite the porcine writing and direction ) characters . 
it's not ultimately about anything at all , except its stupid geared-down plot , which inches onwards in one unremarkable scene after another towards a totally contrived ending . 
at two and a half hours , the movie is overlong and drastically overwritten : there's endless stuff about things which ultimately add up to nothing , and no writing about the material that should really matter . 
it's all handwaving . 
the closing argument are also sneaky and underhanded , and underscored my suspicion that the movie is manipulative and unfair . 
it's not easy to make a movie about something . 
the other day i saw kurosawa's phenomenal rashomon , a movie that is really about the way people deal with truth and reality ( or don't ) . 
a time to kill is as empty and ponderous a movie as i've seen in a long time . 
 " deep rising " gives you that sinking feeling both literally and figuratively : not only does the movie take place on a cruise ship slowly being immersed into the middle of the ocean by a squid-like menace , but the unfolding story is artificial , silly and almost completely derivative of countless other ( and , for the most part , better ) films . 
while dumb monster movies can at least be decent guilty pleasures -- take , for example , the schlocky mountain highs of last spring's " anaconda " -- " deep rising " has no tongue to put in its cheek . 
folks , we're only a month into the new year , and already here's a candidate for one of its stinkiest releases . 
most of the action takes place on the argonautica , a luxury liner in the middle of its maiden voyage ( uh-oh -- if these people had seen " titanic , " then maybe they'd have known to stay home ) when it's attacked by a giant , tentacled sea creature . 
the only survivors are slinky jewel thief trilian ( famke janssen ) , argonautica owner canton ( anthony heald ) and a few other crew members . 
a mercenary team , lead by resourceful captain john finnegan ( treat williams ) , board the argonautica looking for assistance after their own boat breaks down nearby . 
but what their search of the ship uncovers is something blood-soaked , hungry and not very helpful . 
the main problem with " deep rising " is its overt familiarity ; the movie makes absolutely no attempt to differentiate itself from most sci-fi/horror films in recent memory . 
the concept is " leviathan " meets " titanic , " with a dash of " speed 2 " thrown in for good ( or is that bad ? ) 
measure . 
this monster is equal parts " 20 , 000 leagues under the sea " and " the relic , " knows how to open doors like the raptors from " jurassic park " and even gets to expel a half-digested victim ( a neat effect , admittedly ) a la the giant snake in " anaconda . " 
some of the attack sequences are straight out of " jaws " and " alien . " 
a scene where the remaining survivors have to travel under water to escape death is right out of " alien resurrection . " 
there's even a jet ski chase like " hard rain . " 
and the list goes on . 
watching " deep rising " 's cast battle the beast is a murky chore in itself , because none of them have well-developed characters , nor do they seem to project even the slightest sense of fear when facing their enemy . 
williams is affable enough , but his finnegan just isn't believable . 
an interesting supporting cast is thoroughly wasted ; pretty famke janssen , best known as " goldeneye " 's killer thighs , is trapped in a forced romantic interest with williams , while kevin j . o'connor , as finnegan's mechanic , provides comic relief with screechy manic shtick that gets old fast . 
djimon honsou , who received raves for his performance as a noble slave in december's " amistad , " pops up in a brief part . 
he needs to stay away from the water . 
the movie's final shot is a groaner , as is the 11th-hour regurgitation of a subplot involving an on-ship saboteur . 
as if a cast deserving of their snack food-fate isn't bad enough ( when you taunt the monster , you're really asking for it ) , " deep rising " is a slow , stupid slog through a story without a single bright spot . 
and since we all know that the higher the casualty rate is , the closer we are to the end of the movie , rooting for this overgrown squid to swallow the whole ship isn't out of the question . 
 " mandingo " has traditionally been seen as one of two things : either a much-needed revisionist look at slavery in the south , or in the words of film critic leonard maltin , " a trashy potboiler " that " appeals only to the s&m crowd . " 
actually , i think " mandingo " is a strange combination of the two , although it fails on both fronts . 
it's too trashy to be good drama , but too dramatic to be good trash . 
the story takes place on a dilapidated louisiana plantation run by crotchety old warren maxwell ( james mason ) and his son , hammond ( perry king ) . 
one day in new orleans , hammond comes across a slave trader selling a mandingo named mede ( heavyweight boxer ken norton ) . 
although the movie never explains it , a mandingo is simply the name for africans who come from the region of the upper niger river valley . 
according to the movie , mandingos were the rolls royce of african slaves . 
hammond pays top price for mede and has to fight off others in order to get him . 
hammond then spends his time training mede to be a fighter in money brawls with other slaves . 
meanwhile , hammond has married his cousin , blanche ( susan george ) , because she wants to escape her family and he is under pressure from his father to produce a grandchild . 
hammond , however , is happier spending nights with his " bed wench , " the derogatory name given to female slaves used by their masters for easy sex . 
it is quickly apparent that hammond , despite his overt racism , is more in love with his bed wench , a sensitive slave girl named ellen ( brenda sykes ) , than he is with blanche . 
hammond considers blanche tainted goods because he finds out on their wedding night that another man had " pleasured " her before he did . 
of course , it's fine that he's slept with numerous slave girls , but the fact that his wife , a " white lady , " had been with another man out of wedlock destroys his capacity to care for her . 
so blanche is usually left lonely and sex-starved while hammond is sleeping with ellen . 
blanche gets back at hammond by seducing the studly mede and bearing his child . 
hammond and his father cannot stand the idea that blanche has given birth to a half-black child ( although it's okay that ellen was pregnant by hammond ) , so warren kills the child by letting it bleed to death after birth , and hammond poisons blanche . 
hammond then finds mede , shoots him twice in the shoulder , and pushes him into a giant cauldron of boiling water . 
yes , you read right : the film ends with hammond getting his revenge by boiling mede alive . 
judging only by the plot , " mandingo " is pure sexploitation . 
the main purpose of the film seems to be getting as many blacks and whites into bed together as possible , with only the slightest commentary on what that would mean in 19th century southern society . 
when " mandingo " was released in 1975 , it was still a bit of a shocker to see miscegenation on screen in such a graphic detail ; this way the movie could revise cinematic history while attracting large audiences of curious voyeurs . 
dramatically , " mandingo " is weak and unfocused , and historically it's mostly confused . 
if one were to judge history by this film , it would be easy to walk away with the notion that the entire system of american slavery was based on sexuality , not economics . 
not once in the film do we see any of the slaves working , except for a few house servants . 
the men spend most of the time sitting around , while the sole purpose of a female slave seems to be free sex for the owner . 
there is historical basis in the notion that slave owners often slept with their female slaves , but " mandingo's " overwhelming emphasis on this aspect of slavery gives the movie the unpleasant taste of a cheap sex flick ( although there's plenty of violence -- fights , vicious beatings , shootings , and the aforementioned human boiling sequence -- thrown in for good measure ) . 
some tried to write off " mandingo " as a blaxploitation film , one of a number of quickly-made , low-budget films appealing to black sensibilities in the early seventies , but it's not that easy . 
 " mandingo " was studio-financed by paramount pictures , and produced by dino de laurentiis , the grandiose italian producer behind such notorious productions as " the bible " ( 1966 ) , the remake of " king kong " ( 1976 ) , and the ill-fated " dune " ( 1984 ) . 
the director was richard fleischer , a veteran who was best known for several special effects-laden action movies including " 20 , 000 leagues under the sea " ( 1954 ) and " fantastic voyage " ( 1966 ) , as well as such superior suspense films as " the narrow margin " ( 1952 ) . 
the script , based on the supermarket best-seller by ken ostott ( and the subsequent play by jack kirkland ) , was penned by norman wexler , who had been nominated for an oscar two years earlier for his work on " serpico . " 
james mason , perry king , and susan george were well-known and respected actors ( mason already had three oscar nominations under his belt ) , and ken norton appeared to have a promising film career . 
so why is " mandingo " so bad ? 
a number of reasons , including the fact that all those experienced filmmakers behind and in front of the camera did a lousy job . 
wexler's script is pure poor hokum bordering on the offensive ; it combines stereotyped slave-talk ( " yessuh , massuh " ) , stereotyped southern white trash talk ( " fer whut're you gittin' outta bed ? " ) , and stereotyped contemporary militant black talk ( " if you see me hang , you gonna know you killed a black brother ! " ) . 
fleischer's direction is clumsy , especially during the fight scenes , and all the actors give weak performances , especially susan george whose constant shrieking finally becomes laughable . 
nevertheless , credit should be given where credit is due . 
despite its exploitative nature , " mandingo " was one of the first hollywood movies to take an alternative look at slavery . 
until then , there had been a kind of underlying racism in all hollywood films dealing with slavery . 
even classics such as " gone with the wind " ( 1939 ) can be seen as inherently racist by its glossing over the subject matter . 
 " mandingo " reassessed the south , and showed that it wasn't all beautiful plantations , green fields , and pretty sunsets . 
but all this is constantly undermined by the film's negligible point-of-view -- it claims to see things from the black perspective , but the entire narrative focus is on the soap opera tales of the white owners . 
with a little more maturity and different handling , " mandingo " might have been an effective , worthwhile film . 
while it portrays many sensitive aspects of slavery , it never deals with them . 
the issues the movie brings up are worthwhile , but wexler's script refuses to move them beyond a surface level of trashily vicarious viewing . 
there is a great deal of potential in honestly exploring the nature of a sexual relationship between slave and owner , but " mandingo " never does it . 
steven spielberg touched on that same topic in " schindler's list " ( 1993 ) , by looking at a nazi officer writhing in inner turmoil because of his feelings for a jewish maid . 
the difference between that film and " mandingo " is that spielberg dealt with the situation in a fair , unexploitive manner that focused on the inherent human dilemma . 
 " mandingo " is satisfied to simply show some skin , and because of that , its " trashy potboiler " nature overshadows any potential social good it might have accomplished . 
the above is dialogue from this film , taken almost completely in context , and not jazzed up a bit to make it more inept than it is . 
it is spoken between two of the protagonists somewhere in the film , and basically serves as a perfect example of what this film is about , especially if you realize that this exchange is meant to be taken seriously . 
mr . gregg " i'm-having-a-mid-life-crisis " araki , the writer and director of this film , wants to show how important teenagers are , and wants to show how they feel in such a horrible , horrible world . 
and how does he show it ? 
by really cheap surrealism , and moronic exchanges like this . 
oh , and it gets better . 
a similar bit of dialogue is said in the middle of , oh i dunno , the fiftieth sex scene in this film ( i'm not counting the several masturbation scenes ) . 
in it , one of the protagonists is humping away on top of another , and he says to her something along the lines of " do you ever wonder what life is all about ? " 
sorry , man : foreplay takes place before the act of coitus . 
of course , what do you expect : the film was written and directed by a guy who can't even spell his first name right ( yes , i know it's a cheap joke , but it had to be done ) . 
 " the doom generation " is advertised as a road trip movie about people who go around killing others who attack them , and also as another " teen angst " film ( one of the slogans is " teen is a four-letter word " - hardy har har ) . 
it's a film about two angsty teens - amy blue ( rose macgowan , who would later play the buxom tatum in " scream " ) and jordon white ( james duval , who would go on to play randy quaid's son in " independence day " ) - who pick up an angsty homicidal maniac , xavier red ( jonathan schaech , who would go on to play the angsty lead guitarist in " that thing you do ! " 
- and by the way , do you get the symbolism ? 
red , white , and blue ? 
huh ? 
huh ? ) , and go on a road trip where three things happen , in no order : 1 ) they have sex ; 2 ) they run into weird people ; 3 ) they kill them . 
the film is basically a remix of a bunch of other far superior films . 
gregg araki obviously has seen such films as " easy rider , " " natural born killers , " and " kalifornia , " and tries to borrow elements from all these films and make something which is like a pop culture reference guide . 
but what he forgets is these films either represented something that this film does not , or that they dug deep into their subjects and brought something out of them to make them deeper . 
 " the doom generation " doesn't want to do this ; it just wants to show everything in a surreal manner for the sole reason that araki does not want to deal with them on any kind of real level . 
he wants to show everything in a weird manner , and forgets what the scenes are supposed to be about . 
here's one scene , an earlier scene in the film : amy and jordan go into a quick-e mart type place to get food and other stuff . 
amy is smoking , and the clerk , an asian man mind you ( i love how racist this film is , i really do ) , tells her to put it out . 
she tells him to fuck off or something to that note . 
he points a shotgun at her , and she puts it out reluctantly . 
jordan makes two hot dogs , and takes them to the counter . 
the cash register rings up " 6 . 66 " 
 ( oh , and this symbolism doesn't stop here ) . 
jordan checks for his wallet but it's really in the car . 
he asks amy for it , but she left her wallet in the car as well . 
the clerk brings out his shotgun again and asks for the money . 
they say they don't have it . 
he gets ready to kill them , but then xavier , who they ditched in the middle of nowhere a scene before , pops out of nowhere , fights with the clerk , and ends with him blowing the clerk's head clean off ( clean wound , mind you ) . 
the head is shown flying through the air , and lands in a fryer , where it begins to scream . 
i don't really object to this kind of sick violence , but this scene is in the film for one reason and one reason only : to gross you out . 
araki thinks that if he takes everything to the extreme , he'll make some kind of art . 
wrong . 
it takes a kind of resistance to make gore art . 
when george romero made " dawn of the dead , " a very gory flick even for today , he had control over everything and still was able to make everything sick . 
same goes for peter jackson's disgustingly gory " dead alive , " which features a 30 minute long fest of blood , guts , dismemberments , flesh chewing , and other assorted stuff , all ending with a guy with a lawn mower strapped to his body , taking out all sorts of zombies . 
it was sick , but it was also satirical , and controled . 
a scene like this has no purpose in the film , and it sticks out from everything else that happens . 
here's a couple other scenes : jordan and amy have sex in a bath tub and xavier watches , masturbates , and then licks the semen from his hand ; xavier and amy have sex and jordan watches from the window , masturbates , and falls backwards ; a man attacks the trio , and is stabbed in the crotch by a giant sword ( put there just so this could happen ) ; a fast food employee stalks the trio , and his arm is shot off by xavier ; and various other annoyances . 
also , look for about a million camoes from a wide assortment of people , who probably didn't really know what they were getting into when they signed up to do it ( just like peter o'toole , helen mirren , malcolm macdowell , and john gielgud probably didn't when they signed to be in " caligula " ) . 
people such as indie actors parker posey and nicky katt , alternative rock stars skinny puppy and perry farrel , hollywood madam heidi fleiss , christopher " peter brady " mcknight , amanda bearse , and margaret cho all grace the screen for a matter of seconds , then disappear so that we can return to the annoying main plot line . 
why are they here ? 
so that we can all point to them and say " hey , look it's ( fill in the blank ) ! 
wow ! " 
gimme a break . 
the film's meaning is pretty easy to detect : that , you know , teens are so precious , and the world is such a horrible place , that when the two entities collide , there's a giant explosion of horrific violence . 
otherwise defined as " teen angst , " or the belief that being a teenager is a horrible thing and that the world is too bad for you . 
look , i'm 19 years old . 
i went through a very brief teen angst thing which curiously lasted about as long as my taste in nirvana did . 
i've since moved on to " i don't really know what to do with my life " phase , but the teen angst phase is something which is so annoyingly sophomoric and ignorant that any film that thinks they're dealing with it on any kind of serious level is just beating the wrong horse . 
part of being a teen is experimenting , and testing the waters . 
it's not whining about how awful parents are , and purposely feeling dispondent . 
this is what the characters in this film do , and the film wants to show how they're these great people who are being punished by the world because they're teenagers , and how they try to defend themselves but can't totally overcome them . 
it's not their fault they kill people ; it's the world's ! 
what they really need is a reality check . 
the world is a bad place , and teenagers can be easily harmed because they are experimenting . 
but part of it is taking everything that happens to you and learning from it . 
the film thinks that teenagers are basically doomed , and there's nothing they can do about it . 
hence the title . 
not only does it have bad fallacy , but it can't even express this in an intelligent and coherent manner . 
everything's overly surreal , and all we get are scenes of graphic violence and graphic sex . 
how does xavier licking semen off his hand express teen angst ? 
how does a talking decapitated head show that teens are dispondent because the world makes them this way ? 
and why does the film constantly go back to the teen angst issue of the film ? 
if araki had any kind of competence in writing or direction , he'd show them for what they really are . 
and if he didn't want the satirical approach , he'd show the real problems with the world . 
and if you still don't think that " the doom generation " is incompetent on every single possible level it could be , take the acting . 
rose macgowan is horrible . 
yes , she proved herself talented in " scream , " but she's so bad in " the doom generation " that if i had not seen her in " scream , " i would have christened her one of the worst actresses working in films today . 
her entire performance is one-note ( bitchy ) , and the one scene where she cries over a dead animal is so forced that it's laughable . 
equally bad is jonathan schaech , who wants to be the slacker serial killer : someone who doesn't have any remorse because emotions cause some kind of strain . 
his performance is annoying as hell , and granted , he was better in " that thing you do ! " 
and then there's james duval . 
let's just say he makes keanu reeves look like brando . 
he has the same kind of slacker stuttering , only much much much worse , and every line he says is so bad that i have now deemed him " least talented actor in the world . " 
i have seen lots of bad actors , but james duval has got to be the worst . 
or at least somewhere up there . 
here's another example of a bad scene , if you're still not convinced : the film opens up in a club where they're playing nine inch nail's most banal song , " heresy " ( example of the lines : " god is dead/and no one cares/if there is a hell/i'll see you there " ) , and as the song plays , and red strobe lights show the patrons dancing , the film pans over to amy , just standing there , looking dispondent . 
the film closes in on her , she looks right at the camera and says " fuck . " 
no explanation of this should be necessary . 
and finally , a note to gregg : grow up . 
really . 
move out of your parent's basement , read something other than salinger , and get a day job . 
and don't quit it . 
 " ladybugs " is a typical comedy that relies on three supposed guarantees : the pathetic team who beats the champs ; cross dressing ; and the presence of rodney dangerfield . 
this picture doesn't play like a comedy for children , so who is it aimed at ? 
and why is it told like a 91-minute sit-com instead of a feature film ? 
rodney dangerfield stars as chester lee , a total schmuck working at a huge corporation . 
he obviously doesn't have a lot of self esteem and thinks he has to kiss up to get ahead , which he does by volunteering to coach the company's girls' soccer team . 
what a shock to learn chester and his assistant julie ( jackee ) know absolutely nothing about the game , and the players seem to know even less . 
i didn't laugh , but for some reason it didn't annoy me that much . 
chester's fiancee bess ( graff ) thinks he got a promotion in addition to the coaching position , and of course she has a slacker for a son who is doing poorly in school and is kicked off the sports teams . 
jonathon brandis is a nice surprise as matthew , who agrees to dress up as a girl named martha to help out chester ( probably because the girl he has a crush on plays on the team - what original story ideas ! ) . 
what we get is just another retread of the " underdog sports team " mixed with some cross dressing . 
unfortunately , the film isn't smart enough to play upon the drag aspect . 
in fact , it downplays it so heavily it's totally unbelievable . 
could it be any more obvious martha is a boy ? 
he only wears a girl's wig , without any makeup , and they don't even give him falsies . 
brandis doesn't bother to mimic a girl's voice either . 
then there is a pointless scene where chester and matthew shop for a dress , but for what reason ? 
martha is only seen on the soccer field , why would they buy a dress for her ? 
just when we think the martha character is going to be useful , she disappears , and the story wanders aimlessly looking for a new plot to pick up on . 
when bess discovers what's really going on she breaks up with chester , and the relationship is forgotten about and the film focuses on the soccer team and the tension between chester and his boss . 
this film could've been less bad had it been the cliche sports comedy , but it feels the need to go off on tangents that are completely unnecessary ( and bad at that ) . 
there's just too much of a sit-com feel here , especially during the so-called serious moments , and all the confusion between the characters . 
i've seen worse movies than " ladybugs , " but for some reason it contained some sort of bizarre charm , so even when it turns sour it doesn't seem as bad as it is . 
dangerfield finally gets his respect in the end , but at what a price . 
the happy bastard's quick movie review 
the concept of enjoying a stupid comedy is best realized as keeping it stupid , really . 
shift gears even once and the audience can be thrown miserably out of control . 
sadly , that is the case with kingpin , a film directed by the farrelly brothers , the duo that brought us there's something about mary and dumb and dumber . 
since the duo directed and didn't write the script , i can assume that's part of the problem . 
the story seems good enough : a pro bowler in the 1970's by the name of roy munson ( woody harrelson ) is sitting on top of the world . 
his popularity has gone through the roof and he's getting his career off the ground . 
then , however , he runs into ed mccracken ( bill murray ) , a rival bowler with hardly any real consideration for , well , anything . 
these two form an ill-timed relationship that involves risky betting , and , before roy sees it coming , ed's abandoned him and he's about to lose his hand in a bowling ball machine . 
forward seventeen years later , where roy has become quite the loser , complete with mechanical hand , torn-up car , and , of course , the occasional knocking up of the ugly-ass landlord to avoid paying rent for a while . 
however , he finds a glimmer of a hope upon a visit to a local bowling alley , where he runs into an amish kid named ishmael ( randy quaid ) , who has quite the bowling arm . 
with the kid's help , he figures he can be known again , particularly at the biggest bowling tournament rapidly approaching in reno , nevada . 
of course , the amish kid needs some coaxing , particularly when you consider , well , he's amish . 
this leads to some of the best comic scenes in the film , such as roy's process of removing horseshoes or milking the cow . 
finally , the duo get on the road and , along the way , pick up an additional helper- a beautiful hustler ( played by the gorgeous vanessa angel ) . 
the main problem i had with kingpin wasn't the fact it wasn't funny . 
in fact , it does have some rather hilarious scenes in it , such as the aformentioned above and roy's explanation of not having children ( something involving a cheese grater ? ) . 
but that's just it- scenes . 
there's a couple of really serious scenes that throw off the entire momentum of the movie , like the abuse angel takes from her hustler ex-boyfriend . 
i mean , was this really necessary ? 
couldn't have this been handled just a bit wackier ? 
i mean , this is a comedy , why throw ethics in ? 
particularly in a farrelly brothers vehicle , where hair gel can be easily mistaken ? 
that really ruined it , however , and that's too bad . 
the acting is top notch , especially from angel and murray , and the really funny scenes are worth noting . 
still , if you're going to think dumb , think dumb all the way through , ok ? 
at least the farrelly brothers got back on track with mary or i'd still be a little bit irked . 
 " shagadellic ! " , " groovy , baby ! " 
 " smashing ! " 
adorn the 1/4 page ad for this movie tabbed as " the #1 comedy in america " as of may 8th . 
did we attend the same movie ? ! 
at 87 minutes it seemed overlong , like a snl skit on steroids , and at any length it seemed unfunny . 
yes , the sets and costumes were an interesting exaggeration of 60s pop frills , and yes , the concept , dealing with a 60s secret agent/pop icon ( played by myers ) awakened from his cryogenic slumber to battle his arch enemy ( dr . 
evil , also played by myers ) in the present day , had a great deal of potential . 
fun costumes and scenery and potential do not a movie make so lets throw in a hefty dose of bathroom humor . 
don't get me wrong , i like a good " bubbles in the bathtub joke " as much as the next person , but to have this type of humor be the funniest thing about your movie is a waste of yuor talent and my money . 
but , the way things work these days in the movie business , all a film has to do is call itself the funniest and people will believe it . 
i do give this film stars because of the sets , costumes , and sadly , unmet potential . 
robin williams , this time without a beard , returns to drama in this sloppy , sickly sweet fantasy with few redeeming features apart from the incredible effects . 
he plays chris nielsen , who meets annie ( annabella sciora ) and promptly marries her . 
they have two great kids , who sadly die in a car crash . 
just when it couldn't get any worse , chris gets killed in a car crash , and goes to heaven where he meets his guide albert ( gooding jnr . ) 
annie can't take the grief anymore , and kills herself . 
 ( all sounding like good fun so far ? ) 
the 'penalty' for suicide is to go to hell , and chris goes on a mission to try and rescue her using the help of the traveller ( max von sydow . ) 
based on a novel by twilight zone writer richard matheson , what dreams may come is clunky , manufactured material doused with a extra load of sugar . 
this is the worse spielberg film spielberg never made . 
everything is wrong about this movie : the performances are forced , and the audiences fail to relate to any of the characters . 
williams puts on a convincing upset face , but that's all it is : a face . 
there's no emotion behind it . 
sciora's performance is lazy , and bogs down the whole film . 
she may look pretty , but she can't act . 
max von sydow is o . k as the traveller , if nothing special . 
cuba gooding jnr , thankfully , adds some bounce to his performance , and is certainly the best performer in the film . 
it's a shame that his character is so flat and 2-d , and offers no room for improvement . 
all the performers have to work with a soppy script , that tries it's best to get some emotion going , but never takes off the ground . 
there are _some_ scenes which could be real heartwarmers , but the faceless characters don't help to get anything out of the performers . 
while films like e . t used great actors , music and direction to pull of a masterful heart-tugging scene , what dreams may come is haphazard , expecting the emotion to come out of the scene automatically . 
instead , it's all rather boring . 
sure , the music is pretty ( by michael kamen ) and the cinematography isn't bad ( by eduardo serra ) but there's something lacking . 
the script doesn't help , filled with hopeless romantic clich ? s , and dud speeches . 
richard matheson can write some awesome science fiction stories , sadly this novel would look embarrassed in a bargain bin , let alone being converted into a $70 million vehicle for robin williams . 
despite being set in heaven , what dreams may come is mightily depressing . 
the film rushes a happy ending , but everything before this is very , very sad and black , which just adds to make the ending even more hopeless and stupid . 
but there's one redeeming feature about this failure of a movie : the special effects . 
heaven and hell are truly incredible places , and the actors fit perfectly with the virtual sets . 
but despite this , what dreams may come , proves to be nothing but the biggest disappointment of 1998 . 
instead of raising questions about existence , it raises boredom . 
sadly , i recommend you give this film a miss . 
better luck next time , robin . 
a david wilcock review ? 1998 
 " you know , for kids " - norville barnes 
the catch phrase for disney's rocket man is one spoken by fred z . randall ( harland williams ) , the bumbling idiot computer programmer turned astronaut who continuously wreaks havoc everywhere he goes . 
 " it wasn't me ! " he proclaims over and over as the aftermath of his stupidity brings about looks of disgust from the others . 
well when it comes to this movie being as horrible as it is , williams can't take all the blame , but he sure can't justify himself with his own simple tag line either . 
fred has dreamed of space travel since he was a young boy , turning the clothes dryer into a mock space shuttle and staring out wide-eyed at a poster of the earth . 
as a 30-year-old , fred hasn't grown up much , but at least he's somewhat closer to his goal , now designing astronaut software for nasa . 
when an astronaut for an upcoming mission to mars becomes injured , nasa calls on the person who knows the programming inside and out to fill the void . 
 . 
 . 
fred . 
yes , although he's an obviously klutzy moron , nasa doesn't think twice about throwing him into a rigorous training program so he can assist one of the most important events the space program , and time itself , has ever known . 
for the first part of the film , we watch as fred takes on the training program much like an amusement park . he laughs , he screams , but he never once breaks a sweat or views the preparation as anything more than child's play . 
his passive approach to the program eventually leads to many record-breaking feats , much to the dismay of cocky counterpart , mission commander captain overbeck ( william sadler ) , who once held the records . 
overbeck will regretfully accompany fred and two others to the red planet , one being astronaut julie ford ( the stupids' jessica lundy ) , and the other being a chimpanzee who is much more civilized than our antagonizing protagonist . 
from here on out , we are subjected to one lame gag after another , dealing with snot , laxatives , and flatulence . 
you know , standard kid movie material . 
almost sounding like a poor james stewart impressionist , williams is awful in his first starring role . 
we get the feeling that if jerry lewis and pee-wee herman were related and produced an inbred offspring , williams would be it . 
while he's not as annoying as other actors who cater to zany , stupid comedy , he's just as unlikeable . 
to say it more understandably , jim carrey might annoy you more , but this guy is even less funny . 
why ? 
because while he possesses the stupidness needed to pull off such a role , his performance is too understated and boring . 
classic comedic dunces were generally oblivious to their own idiocy . 
stan laurel , for example , was so innocent in all his trouble-making that we were immediately fond of him . 
peter sellers , as inspector clouseau , was so self-assured and confident that when he did something as simple as trip , it was humor at it's best . 
williams , on the other hand , can't garner the pity he needs to make us love him in all his anti-glory . 
as for the rest of the cast , including some bigger names in smaller roles ( beau bridges and shelley duvall ) , nobody is worth watching whatsoever . 
this is just another example of the fast-food equivalent of cinema : mass-produced , less than mediocre , over priced , and hard to stomach . 
giving it one-and-a-half stars is * extremely * generous , but even i'll admit to laughing a few times . 
the amazing thing is that even in a theater packed with little kids , laughter was something rarely heard - even from the children ! 
i must admit that it gave me more respect for the kids when they didn't crack up over every little thing . 
then again , maybe they were asleep . 
some people might think critics are harsh on kid movies , claiming adults aren't the targeted audience and therefore aren't meant to , and won't , enjoy them . 
sadly , it's also true that kids will enjoy almost anything if it's presented right . 
a two-hour still shot of a dog with a cartoonish voice over could entertain a lot of toddlers out there , but would that make it as artistic as beauty and the beast , which could easily do the same thing ? 
and saying that a parent's perspective isn't important is quite a poor theory to have when they're the ones who take the kids to these films in the first place . 
based on the novel set in 1914 by joseph conrad , victory spins a tale of a pair of lovers , heyst ( william dafoe ) and alma ( irene jacob ) , who seek refuge on heyst's isolated island . 
however , their idyllic world begins to crumble upon the arrival of mr jones ( sam neil ) , martin ricardo ( rufus sewell ) and their servant , pedro ( graziano marcelli ) , who have come to steal heyst's rumoured plunder . 
while the novel is largely complex in characterization , the film sadly transposes conrad's characters into lacklustre leads , the most disappointing being heyst himself . 
conrad's heyst adheres religiously to his late father's ways of detachment and isolation . 
his ascetic lifestyle is thrown into question when he meets alma , a helpless orchestra girl who charms him with her voice . 
the struggle to embrace the arrival of alma into his solitude , however , is lost in mark peploe's ( director and writer ) diluted version of heyst . 
without properly establishing the crucial details of heyst's character , all that is left of conrad's main character is a very shallow treatment of his internal conflict between detachment and human involvement . 
on the one hand , actualizing the subtext is a mammoth task ( though not impossible ) , but on the other hand , dafoe's flat acting cannot be excused as an attempt at stoicism . 
in the end , we are supposed to witness heyst renounce his philosophy and finally come to an understanding of what it is to love another . 
the final transformation , while perceptible , lacks the cathartic revelation which is undeniable in conrad's novel . 
its absence in the film is unforgivable . 
the film seems more concerned about moving the plot along when so much has yet to be said about the relationship between the two complete strangers . 
alma is supposed to have overcome great emotional barriers in the relationship , namely heyst's underlying philosophy of detachment , which heyst himself grapples with . 
the struggle against heyst's ignorance of true human involvement accounts for much of the greatness of alma's love for him . 
jacob , fair-skinned , gentle and yet passionate , handles the role with precision , detailing nuances where possible . 
unfortunately , she is let down by a superficial script . 
the couple's relationship develops too hastily , leaving all subtlety effaced and replaced with a blatant show-and-tell approach . 
all we know of the characters are mostly explained by their lines alone . 
this is unsatisfactory when so much of the turmoil experienced by the two stem from their buried thoughts and emotions . 
the sketchy handling of their relationship stands out as sorely as dafoe's american accent ( an inappropriate one since heyst spent most of his life in london ) . 
the other characters such as schomberg ( jean yanne ) , the owner of a hotel , and mr jones ( sam neill ) , also fall short of conrad's meticulous characterization . 
while schomberg should have been more menacing and vindictive , mr jones should have been portrayed as something more of an enigma . 
sam neil's caricature of a slightly stout , effeminate and soft-spoken gentleman-at-large nullifies the effect intended by conrad who describes mr jones as " an insolent spectre on leave from hades , endowed with skin and bones and a subtle power of terror " . 
poor characterization aside , kudos goes to rufus sewell for his excellent portrayal of ricardo , secretary to mr jones , a reckless ruffian capable of murder . 
sewell , with his cockney accent and large expressive green eyes , becomes the true terror of the unholy trinity , masterminding deceitful plans behind jones' back . 
at the same time , we are entertained by the foolhardiness of his plans . 
despite the authentic setting and marvellous cinematography by bruno de keyzer , very few images are left behind for us to savour after the film has ended . 
sourabaya and its surrounding islands and volcanoes may have their charm , but mean nothing once the film fails to capture the essence of an epic , which is what victory deserves to be . 
the delicately inter-woven complexities in the love story are lost to an inadequate production . 
at the end of the film , we are told that perhaps alma's victory was in teaching heyst how to love . 
a hollow victory indeed . 
the flying inkpot's rating system : * wait for the video . 
 * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha ! 
 * * * pretty good , bring a friend . 
 * * * * amazing , potent stuff . 
 * * * * * perfection . 
see it twice . 
a couple of criminals ( mario van peebles and loretta devine ) move into a rich family's house in hopes of conning them out of their jewels . 
however , someone else steals the jewels before they are able to get to them . 
writer mario van peebles delivers a clever script with several unexpected plot twists , but director mario van peebles undermines his own high points with haphazard camera work , editing and pacing . 
it felt as though the film should have been wrapping up at the hour mark , but alas there was still 35 more minutes to go . 
daniel baldwin ( i can't believe i'm about to type this ) gives the best performance in the film , outshining the other talented members of the cast . 
[r] 
chill factor is a carbon copy of speed with one notable exception : instead of a speeding bus , we now have an ice cream truck . 
the truck is driven by arlo ( cuba gooding jr . ) and mason ( skeet ulrich ) , who have been instructed by a dying scientist to transport a deadly chemical weapon to a military base by the name of fort mcgruder . 
this particular weapon ( nicknamed `elvis' ) must be kept below a temperature of 50 degrees , or else the shockwave will goo-iffy everything in a mile radius . 
that would be pretty nasty . 
the power of elvis is revealed in the opening scene , as dr . richard long ( david paymer ) conducts a test on an isolated tropical island . 
long accidentally melts 18 soldiers and defoliates virtually the entire island , due to an enormously miscalculated safety distance . 
the commanding officer , general brynner ( peter firth ) , is sentenced to 10 years in prison for the murder of his troops . 
upon his release , the general is intent on tracking the good doctor down , snatching elvis , and selling the weapon to the highest international bidder . 
protecting the fate of the world is a drifting hamburger flipper ( ulrich ) and a feisty ice cream delivery man ( gooding jr . ) , who must elude brynner's men and get elvis to safety at fort mcgruder . 
all the while , of course , they must keep the weapon below 50 degrees . 
this proves to be tricky . 
among the wild adventures arlo and mason partake in is a trip down a tree-covered mountainside in a boat , and a fist fight on top of a moving vehicle . 
they also crack a few dozen witty retorts that we are supposed to find amusing . 
to put it simply , i'll use a clever pun : chill factor should be put on ice . 
director hugh johnson has mixed elements from speed , broken arrow and the lethal weapon series to create a lifelessly bland cocktail of a chase movie . 
when there is some occasional action , the audience seems oddly detached from it . 
perhaps that's because we've already waded through a pool of clich ? s and boring dialogue ; all material that's been used before , and with a lot more spice . 
take the villains , for example . 
they are typical stereotypes of every terrorist that has ever walked the silver screen . 
they speak lines that have been recycled profusely from one movie to the next , divulge important plot details while holding their enemies at gunpoint , and act in very predictable ways . 
the tag-team of gooding jr . and ulrich sounds much more exciting than it is . 
frankly , i'm not sure i can accept cuba as an ice cream man . 
i suppose it's better than him dressed like a giant hot dog , selling jumbo frankfurters on a street corner . 
gooding displays one single emotion in this movie , which is frequently on display in lines like `i'm gonna get on yo ass like last year's underwear ! ' and the incessant sputtering of `oh , sh * t ! ' 
this is virtually the same character he played in jerry maguire and as good as it gets . 
but where gooding was once an exciting actor , he now seems dull and endlessly monotonous . 
at least he's a bit more captivating than ulrich , who has all the film's worst dialogue , but does nothing noticeable to enliven his character . 
the supporting cast , which includes every personality you expect to pop up , is also wasted . 
to be fair , there are a few brief moments of serviceable action . 
and i did chuckle a few times . 
one example is when ulrich ( an employee at `darlene's diner' ) is at the counter when brynner walks through the door . 
`you own this place ? ' 
the general asks . 
`yeah , ' ulrich says . 
`they call me darlene . ' 
these little tidbits of humor are ( mainly ) welcome in this weak , disappointing wreckage of an action film . 
as a speed clone , it could have benefited from a lot more suspense and perhaps ( god forbid ) even some decent writing . 
sadly , i walked away from chill factor only wondering how much fun it could have been . 
 * * * warning - the following review contains spoilers * * * 
cast : gary sinise , don cheadle , connie nielsen , jerry o'connell , kim delaney , tim robbins , elise neal , jill teed , jody thompson , bill timoney written by : jim thomas , john thomas and graham yost directed by : brian depalma running time : 115 minutes 
the first big event movie of 2000 turns out to be anything but . 
gary sinise stars as an astronaut who is removed from a mars mission when his astronaut wife , maggie ( kim delaney ) , becomes ill and passes away . 
don cheadle is then given the mission along with a russian couple and a young hotshot . 
when a strange whirlwind shot from the top of a mars mountain range attacks the crew of the mission , sinise and robbins convince their superior to let them , neilsen , and o'connell perform a rescue mission for whatever crew might be remaining . 
what they discover on the surface of the planet will dramatically change their lives forever ( although no one watching the film will come away profoundly affected ) . 
before i ever saw the film , i was aware of the promotional campaign with dr . pepper . 
every time i would see a bottle of the soft drink , the mission to mars logo was emblazoned upon it . 
little did i know that the plot would be taking a back seat to the product placement of the drink and several other products . 
dr . pepper saves the day at one point , and a dream sequence/flashback features jerry o'connell shoving m&m's in our face . 
these are but a couple of the ridiculous examples of product placement scattered throughout the film . 
clich ? s are also the order of the day with mission to mars . 
dialogue and character motivations are all lifted directly from countless other science fiction films that have all done it better and with more style ( even independence day , which lifted all of it's premises from other sci-fi films was better than this film , and i don't like independence day ) . 
films like 2001 : a space odyssey , the abyss , and close encounters of the third kind are all blatantly stolen from ( and poorly at that ) . 
there is even a sequence where a rover is traveling through a canyon , and i couldn't help but whisper " u'tinni " to myself and wait for a jawa to quickly hide in the rocks before the rover could get a glimpse of it . 
this film also features one of my all-time least favorite movie clich ? s : the " he would have wanted you to have this " moment , where one character gives another a trinket that yet another character is established as constantly having ( and is usually made fun of by the character who ends up getting all sappy over it later on ) . 
scenes like these always bother me when they come out of nowhere in regular films , but in a film as clich ? ridden as this , it is particularly irritating . 
ennio morricone's music is usually considered to be some of the best stuff in the projects he works on , but here it is dreadfully overbearing . 
his music sounds like it came straight out of a vincent price movie in certain scenes . 
at other times his music is unbearably over-dramatic . 
one sequence involving a daring spacewalk rescue is given a particularly cheesy sting when it is discovered that the grappling hook device used for the rescue won't reach its intended target . 
mission to mars is push button filmmaking to the greatest extreme . 
events are set into motion that are obvious to anyone who has ever seen a movie and seem like they are just there to evoke an emotional response in the audience . 
we are apparently supposed to be upset that tim robbins character removes his helmet in deep space and kills himself to save his wife , but i felt extreme boredom coupled with a twinge of disinterest . 
what makes it all worse is that fact that there is no real reason that robbins' character needs to turn himself into a popsicle , except to invoke an emotional response ( i could think of at least one way to save him , and the nasa clowns in this film are supposed to be " smarter " than i am ) . 
during the finale , when we are finally introduced to the translucent , conehead , kitty-faced aliens that we ostensibly sprung from , we are presented with some of the most ridiculously cartoonish cgi ever put to film ( just slightly worse than the plane crash at the end of air force one or the hell scenes in spawn ) . 
a brief history lesson about " where we came from " is proffered , then sinise is whisked away to be with " the rest of our people " ( he does this because his late wife proclaims in a video he watches early on that " this is a chance to step foot where no one else has " ) . 
>from the press i've been seeing this film receive , it is apparent that mission to mars will be dying a quick death at the theater . 
i'm sure the first weekend or two will be huge , but once word gets out people will stop going . 
let's just hope the upcoming red planet is better than this and isn't hurt by the negativity this film is generating . 
i'd venture to say it won't be worse than this waste of time . 
[pg] 
retrospective : city of the living dead ( 1980 ) 
a film review by mike watson copyright 1997 mike watson 
i once heard someone describe the films of italian schlock horror director lucio fulci as " dim-witted " . 
and by golly , just about all other words fail me when confronted with a dog like city of the living dead . 
although the late fulci managed some rather good thrillers in his career , this is not one of them . 
two points in the movie's favour - the impressive camerawork of sergio salvati and occasionally evocative score by fabio frizzi - keep things from falling totally into the abyss , but by and large city of the living dead is a failure . 
and like most cinematic failures , it comes down to bad writing , dumb performances and lousy direction . 
the story starts in new york when , during a seance , a medium ( katherine mccoll ) sees a vision of a priest hanging himself in the town of dunwich , massachusetts . 
for reasons we won't go into here , this opens the gates of hell which must be closed by all saints day or the dead will rise and walk the earth . 
the medium apparently dies of fright during the seance , but awakens in her coffin in the graveyard the next day and is rescued by a crusty old journalist ( christopher george ) . 
that scene in itself is a howler : why would you bust open a coffin with a large pick axe when you know someone is alive inside ? 
and don't cadavers have various things stuffed in them and drained out of them before they're buried ? 
anyway , off the two of them go to dunwich to save the world , where various grisly goings-on are already happening as all saints day approaches . 
fulci's graphic gore is in evidence once again , but here it only serves to further highlight the film's flimsy script and plodding direction . 
the dialogue , in all manner of speaking , is unspeakable . 
not bad in the quotable sense , like an ed wood film , but bad in its sheer dullness or blatantly obvious " lets explain the plot " type approach . 
mccoll doesn't have a clue who her character is : deadly serious one minute , frivolous the next , she at times is genuinely hard to watch . 
and the geezer ( the actor's name escapes me ) who plays the town psychiatrist becomes even harder to stomach than mccoll as the film progresses . 
christopher george's performance is salvageable , but he gets his brains ripped out in the end by a zombie and we don't care . 
in fact we don't care for anyone in city of the living dead , though in other fulci films that hasn't mattered so much when he was on form as a stylist and an ideas man , as he was in the beyond . 
as a director , some of fulci' idiosyncrasies are incredibly silly and annoying here . 
he constantly uses extreme close-ups of people's eyes , a ridiculous technique which suggests an attempt to convey the emotion that his dialogue and actors aren't capable of . 
and despite some gruesome violence , he barely manages a single scare in the entire film . 
long-time collaborator fabio frizzi , talented but always erratic , offers a patchy soundtrack that veers between eerie , gothic death marches and woefully inappropriate electro-pop that's quite frankly embarrassing . 
fulci's other films of this period may be flawed - house by the cemetery , the beyond , the black cat - but they are nonetheless films with more inspiration , atmosphere and better dialogue than this turkey . 
for completists only . 
you know the plot : a dimwit with a shady past is seduced into committing a crime only to be double-crossed by a fatal femme . 
in " palmetto , " the dimwit is harry barber ( woody harrelson ) , a reporter who's just been released from prison ( he was framed by the gangsters and corrupt officials he was investigating ) . 
enter la femme : rhea malroux ( elisabeth shue ) , the sexy young wife of the richest man in palmetto , florida ( rolf hoppe ) . 
she and her stepdaughter odette ( chlo ? sevigny ) have a plot to extort 500k from the old man : harry will " kidnap " odette . 
after groping both women , harry agrees . 
as everyone except harry can see , he's being set up as a fall guy . 
sure enough , before long , harry has a dead body in his trunk and the cops on his tail . 
his brother-in-law ( tom wright ) , an assistant da , has hired harry to be the press liaison for the case , so harry gets a front row seat for his own manhunt ( and we get to watch him sweat-literally ) . 
there are several plot twists , of course-a couple of them even took me by surprise . 
apparently every woman in palmetto is a raving horndog , and they're on harry like he's the only bone in the kennel . 
shue vamps so broadly that i expected tex avery's wolf to show up . 
her incredible performance in " leaving las vegas " seems to have been a fluke . 
here , she could easily be mistaken for melanie griffith . 
shue's character is supposed to be a savvy schemer but she comes off as a brainless bimbo . 
in addition to shue and sevigny , the kennel includes gina gershon ( who filled the dimwit-with-a-shady-past role in " bound " ) as harry's girlfriend nina ; when harry gets out of jail , she licks his face ( now there's a horndog ) . 
the parts are so overplayed that with a little push " palmetto " could have been an over-the-top parody of film noir a la " romeo is bleeding . " 
as it is , it's best watched at 2am on showtime ( the love scenes seem to have been written for one of that channel's soft porn programs anyway ) . 
 " palmetto " has a well-known director , volker schl ? ndorff , who's best known for his adaptations of major literary works , especially " the tin drum . " 
i suppose he must have been drawn to this plot-by-numbers script by the same admiration for classic film noir that led scorsese to remake " cape fear . " 
schl ? ndorff tries hard-he makes an interesting motif out of the ubiquitous palmetto bugs-but nothing can freshen up this stale script . 
the comet-disaster flick is a disaster alright . 
directed by tony scott ( top gun ) , it tells the story about an asteroid the size of texas caught on a collision course with earth . 
and you thought that dinky little comet in deep impact was trouble . 
jeez . 
after a great opening , in which an american spaceship , plus the city of new york , are completely destroyed by a comet shower , nasa detects the said asteroid and go into a frenzy . 
they hire the world's best oil driller ( bruce willis ) , and send him and his crew up into space to fix our globel problem . 
that's like sending a mouse into a cat carrier , isn't it ? 
the action in armageddon are so over the top , nonstop , and too ludicrous for words , i had to sigh and hit my head with my notebook a couple of times . 
i was not alone . 
plus , to see a wonderful actor like billy bob thornton is a film like armageddon is a waste of the actor's talents . 
the film is just a reel to show off a bunch of snazzy fx shots . 
the only real reason for making this film was to somehow out-perform deep impact . 
producer jerry bruckheimer fails with armageddon . 
years ago , robin williams made _jumanji_ , a brilliant achievement in special effects , but a travesty on nearly every other level . 
the same can be said for _what dreams may come_ , a boring , illogical , weepie-wannabe that left my senses numb . 
don't get me wrong : i love breathtaking special effects and pulse-pounding imagery . 
_brazil_ is on my personal top ten . 
_the city of lost children_ is a great film because of its outlandish scenarios . 
i even love _2001_ and _last year at marienbad_ , being in the minority amidst my friends . 
_what dreams may come_ , imagery aside , has little daring thought to complement its imagery . 
the daring thought it _does_ have is never fully realized . 
it's idea of a plot is so lukewarm , that it insults the bigger questions it raises . 
it would have been better if the filmmakers rid the film of the live action sequences , put on an electronica soundtrack , and sell it as one of those popular _mind's eye_ videos . 
robin williams plays chris nielsen , who dies too prematurely--not only in the story , but before we have a chance to really know and care for him . 
the director , vincent ward , and the screenwriter ronald bass , have chosen to tell his life story in flashbacks while having the foreground story focus on his experience with the afterlife . 
big mistake . 
it would have been far better to take the half-hour or so needed to tell his life story first ( ala _it's a wonderful life_ ) , so that i can build up respect for him , so i could know and possibly care for him , his children , and his long-suffering wife ( played superbly by annabella sciorra ) . 
instead , the filmmakers insult my intelligence by rushing into the story , expecting that the film to grow in depth as it progresses . 
it doesn't . 
so in the afterlife , chris learns that ( a ) people still don't meet god , ( b ) that our thoughts are reality , and ( c ) time does not exist there . 
hmm . . . 
i+ll grant one of those silly giant ideas for the sake of the narrative . 
 ( the " not meeting god " part still irks at me , but perhaps there was no possible way to film it and give it due respect ) . 
that said , this alternate reality still makes no possible sense . 
read on . . . 
chris' wife commits suicide . 
since suicides go to hell , chris would be separated from his wife forever . 
the important question is , is heaven really heaven if you are separated from the one you love ? 
good question . 
and i like good thought-provoking questions . 
i don+t like it when the filmmakers deviate from the question . 
i _loathe_ it when the filmmakers deviate from the question so that the film becomes a popular rescue film , especially a rescue film which does not take its underlying premise seriously . 
i _really_ loathe it when it+s story is no longer run by logic , but by special effects . 
hey chris : did you forget ? 
your thoughts are _real_ . 
they are more _real_ than the physical world , according to the new-age screenplay . 
so , why don+t you conjure up positive thoughts of annie , and let that run wild ? 
and then she would appear before you , and you two would live in happy bliss for eternity ? 
because there would be no movie , that+s why . 
and albert the angel ( played by miscast cuba gooding , jr . ) says bluntly : " that+s fantasy . " 
umm . . . 
if your thoughts are more real than the physical , then fantasy is not fantasy , but real . 
surely some eastern meditation specialist would be able to tell you that . 
and if you happen to think that you are an unimaginative person , and that your thoughts aren't big enough to sustain you for eternity , well , in all due respect , that's why i don't subscribe to this theology . 
all due respect . 
another idea , based on " time , ( pause ) , does not exist here ! " 
so chris , spend your eternity with annie , as she is on earth , reliving your favorite memories , or hang out with her when she was growing up . 
you+ve got eternity : perhaps you can hang around long enough and learn not to freak her out . 
and forcing her to write " i still exist " in her diary , imo , is just too tacky . 
there are many other ideas , all of which are a hundred times better than what+s unraveled in the plot . 
the great aforementioned question is sidetracked into gimmicky subplots that have been done before , and just come out stale . 
most insulting is the subplot where important people in chris+ life appear in heaven differently than he expects , so when they finally show themselves , he realizes they were with him all along . 
and when this happens , the film runs in slow motion , as if to build emotion . 
_gag me with a spoon_ . 
so the only things for me to like are sciorra+s effective performance , who rises far above this mundane material , and the special effects . 
please note that while i enjoyed some of the visuals , i did not enjoy _all_ of them : some of the images looked like sandy duncan universe , everybody floating up and down in invisible strings . 
it sounds like a joke , but it+s really true : i really tried to block out the dialogue , and figure out what music would best work as an alternative soundtrack . 
my vote goes to a rare cd called " never say die " ( 1981 ) from petra , a christian rock group . 
it+s pretty good , and they have a song about annie , who commits suicide . 
 ( it+s too late for annie/she+s gone away for good/there+s so much we'd have told her/and now we wish we could/but it+s too late . . . ) . 
melancholic , yes . 
depressing , yes . 
but far more entertaining . . . 
so , in case you don+t know , let me be straight . 
suicide--bad . 
_don+t do it_ . 
no . no . no . ( got it ? --you 
shouldn+t have to pay $7 . 50 to hear this in an awful robin williams schmaltzfest . ) 
the original _babe_ was my favorite movie of 1995 , a sleeper hit that transcended its target audience . 
being a surprise commercial and critical success , it had no marketing tie-ins , which limited its final take . 
thus , babe 2 arrives , with a budget greater than the money made in babe 1 . 
plush dolls , vending machines hawking t-shirts , and macy's thanksgiving day balloons arrive for holiday money-grubbing . 
too late . 
this is a sad review to write , because babe 2 not only does _not_ live up to the original , but it doesn't even come to a fraction of it . 
i shouldn't expect that sequels to modern fairy tales to match their predecessors' magic , but this film tries too hard , and loses its charm . 
consider a driver applying the accelerator with great intensity , unaware that his car is in neutral . 
imagine with me , if you will , _scream_'s jamie kennedy , explaining the " rules " for sequels like babe 2 . 
 ( 1 ) there must be _more_ talking animals . 
 ( 2 ) there must be _more_ slapstick comedy . 
 ( 3 ) there must be _more_ songs for those mice to sing : that's cute . 
 ( 4 ) keep the story cards to break up the action : that's cute too , even though " the pig gets wise " made no sense , given the context of that story partition . 
 ( 5 ) there must be action , however illogical , that will conjure up pivotal scenes from the original : the trademark song that nobody remembers the words to , the baa-ram-ewe secret code , the " that'll do , pig . 
that'll do . " 
now throw in the limitations : ( a ) james cromwell , now a hot commodity , has limited time on the set ( or maybe he didn't approve of the script ) . 
 ( b ) christine cavanaugh , the voice of the original babe , demands more money ( $200 , 000--paltry considering the $80 million budget ) . 
out . 
e . g . 
daily comes in with noticable results . 
 ( c ) george miller , the director , is more well-known for his dark futuristic mad max films and his twilight zone segment , not for kiddie fare ( and no , he didn't direct that _andre_ film in '94 ) . 
 ( d ) the special effects are impressive , _but limited_ . 
babe talks , but most of the time from a single shot , repeated over and over again . 
 ( babe is center screen , looking straight into the camera , with a happy smirk--regardless of whether he's happy , or scared , or tired ) . 
season now with the " original " elements , which , as we will find out , are straight from the screenwriting-is-hell bin . 
 ( i ) change the venue into " the big city " . 
this has been praised as wildly original . 
excuse me : didn't _home alone_ do this several years ago ? 
how about the muppets ? 
even _the bad news bears_ travelled to tokyo . 
sorry . 
no dice . 
side note : to give the city a fairy-tale look , george miller crafted a fantastical fantasyland that merges the landmarks of the world's great cities , and yes , it _is_ impressive . 
but this too is over-used , repeating the same view over and again on multiple occasions . 
and , for the most part , babe _remains in the hotel_ . 
 ( ii ) given the limitations of cromwell , the human element is taken over by " the boss' wife " played by magda szubanski . 
s-t-r-e-t-c-h . 
she's not a lead actress-type , she's not funny enough in her physical comedy , and she's simply embarrassing in some of her pratfalls . 
 ( have her arrested falsely on drug charges ! 
have her accidentally incite a riot with biker dudes and scantily clad babes ! 
have her bounce around on a bungee cord at a prestigious benefit dinner ! ) 
i was hoping for a little smirk during these scenes , but i felt sorry for the embarrassment that she put herself in . 
i am restraining myself from talking about the dark nature of the film , the violence , the scene where a pit bull dangles from the bridge , head submerged underwater . 
even the best fairy tales have a bit of the macabre in it , as the brothers grimm have demonstrated . 
no . . . my problem is with the story , or lack thereof . 
_babe_ is sent out to save the hoggett farm , but once in the city , that story is forgotten . 
being a good-natured pig in the midst of the cynicism of his environs is nice , but , other than rescue that aforementioned pit bull , what did babe actually _do_ ? 
without giving the ending away , the farm is saved from a left-field quirk that had nothing to do with the pig . 
speaking of " pig " , or , " pig-pig-pig-pig-pig ! " . 
the word " pig " is so overused , had they changed it to an expletive , and had the pig be al pacino , i could have been watching _scarface_ . 
this is screenwriting ? 
further , i cannot explain the deep gnaw at my gut in the many scenes where accidents happen to good people in fantastically elaborate setups . 
had it been a cartoon , and the victim be an equivalent of elmer fudd , maybe my reaction would have been softened . 
but to farmer hoggett ? 
his wife ? 
an elderly mickey rooney ? 
much too irreverent . 
 ( " quick ! 
splice those singing mice into those scenes ! " ) . 
the film isn't a colossal failure . 
i did like glenne headley's schmoozy chimpanzee . 
i liked the pink poodle . 
the dog on the cart , who momentarily thinks he's in dog heaven . 
and a weird looking guy who may have been doubly-cast as an airport employee and a judge . 
but most of the time , i was looking down , in boredom , or in embarrassment over the hacked-up script . 
them singing mice , those chapter partitions , the proficient acting of the animals-- none of these can compensate for a story . 
let me spoil the final scene : farmer hoggett looks at pig , proud , says " that'll do , pig . 
that'll do . " 
that's it . 
hope i didn't ruin it for you . 
but tell me this : what the heck did that pig _do_ ? 
at first i was intrigued by the strange cast and odd creatures on the galaxy quest trailer , but that was before i saw the film . 
now my view has completely changed . 
it's time to embrace for impact , because this is a very bumpy ride . 
the story begins with the cast of galaxy quest including : jason nesmith ( tim allen ) , alexander dane ( alan rickman ) , gwen demarco ( sigourney weaver ) signing autographs at a convention . 
they meet fans who dress up in costumes , fans who worship the ground they walk on , and a group of aliens called thermians who believe that they are the ultimate saviors against the dreaded alien colony lead by sarris ( robin sachs ) . 
of course they are unaware of this until they actually begin performing their duties , and meet the ugly aliens themselves . 
thus begins the long adventure to help save the thermians . 
the movie plays like a really bad star trek episode , in fact it's worse . 
i don't even think trekkies will appreciate this weak spoof , because quite frankly it's just not funny . 
all the jokes are basically collected observations from the series . 
one such continuous joke involves a simple crew member who believes he will die in space , because no extra on the tv show ever lives , as proven in the star trek series . 
creative jokes like this may seem like a clever idea , but not when they are used to death . 
a person can only take so much . 
we do not need to be tortured , especially when you have to pay for it . 
it's pretty bad when even tim allen is pitiful . 
it's not like i expected an oscar worthy performance form him , but a few laughs would have been helpful . 
speaking of acting , 2 fine talents were wasted as well . 
sigourney weaver was here to show cleavage , well at least it worked . 
it's pretty bad when the only entertaining value of the film is cleavage . 
it just shows you how disgraceful the film really is . 
alan rickman however was not so lucky . 
after his last hit ( dogma ) he embarrasses himself by doing this sloppy mess . 
it's just a shame to see talented actors and actresses throw their ability away . 
when the film couldn't get any worse , thankfully some nice special effects pop up . 
like many big blockbusters ( armageddon , the haunting to name a few ) they rely heavily on effects to help boost the film's box office results . 
times it works , but unfortunately we have to shell out hard earned money and suffer through this junk . 
when will it stop ? 
i am getting tired of being suckered into seeing such trash . 
it may look fine and dandy , but we need to at least have a story . 
is that too much to ask ? 
obviously it is . 
when galaxy quest finally ends , it literally crash lands . 
aside from the impressive looking creatures from industrial light and magic , it's an embarrassment to the cast , and it's embarrassing to the science fiction genre . 
it's not the least bit fun , nor was it entertaining . 
the only place where this movie belongs is to infinity and beyond . 
the makers of spawn have created something almost as vacuous as this summer's other comic book adaptation , batman and robin . 
both films make the mistake of adapting for the screen not only the look of their graphic counterparts , but also their monosyllabic dialogue and empty-headed character motivations . 
in panel-sized morsels , implausible plots and " rambo " -esque dialogue are often overshadowed by the artwork , but on thirty foot silver screens , it's much more difficult to dismiss the shallowness behind the pretty pictures . 
spawn is ostensibly about an assassin named simmons ( white ) who is framed by a corporate baddie ( played without irony by sheen ) , then set on fire and left for dead . 
though the movie skimps on the next few plot points , here's what i could determine : said assassin then becomes the leader of satan's army , under the tutelage of a flatulating midget named clown ( leguizamo , grating as always ) . 
he is renamed , for reasons unbeknownst , spawn , and granted a really cool costume that enables him to become something of a human chameleon . 
but when spawn spies on a birthday party for his child , he realizes that he can't be the evil superdemon he's expected to be , and he sets about avenging his untimely death . 
typical of summer blockbusters , spawn is an effects-laden ninety minute rock video . 
while the visions of hell are laughably crude ( think the virtual reality sequences of the lawnmower man ) , spawn's prehensile outfit and the action sequences are truly something to behold . 
but the storytelling is completely lacking in emotion ( spawn longs for his wife , but they don't have a single scene together before simmons' death ! ) , conflict ( who will triumph is not anybody's guess ) , and believability ( not that i expected it ) . 
so many questions are left unanswered , and i'm sure they won't be addressed in the inevitable sequel . 
while last year's the crow : city of angels suffered similar problems with its narrative ( which was lazy and somewhat incoherent ) , it had atmosphere to spare and genuine moments of hypnotic power . 
spawn is an in-your-face , screaming banshee of a film ; these guys know how to graft a comic book onto celluloid , but they haven't the faintest idea how to make a movie . 
phaedra cinema , the distributor of such never-heard-of classics as " soft toilet seats , " " trailer : the movie , " and " the one armed boxer vs . the flying guillotine , " has sneaked its latest release , " the sculptress , " into a few theaters this weekend hoping to cash in on a handful of halloween holidaygoers looking for a right good scare . 
 " the sculptress " is a scary proposition all right , but not in the way its producers intended . 
from the outset it's easy to see why some of the larger , more reputable chains aren't carrying it : the film looks like a straight-to-video release from the early '80s that's been dusted off ( not very carefully ) and re-issued in theatrical format . 
that staple of schlocky z-movies jeff fahey ( " the lawnmower man " ) plays a washed-up shakespearean actor lacking in some basic people skills . 
when he's not reliving his glory days in his ramshackle nob hill apartment , screaming scotch-induced " hamlet " soliloquies well into the night , he's out and about on the streets of san francisco stalking loose women . 
fahey's dobie sizes up his victims ( actually just one , a peep show performer name of sylvie ) dressed like one of the guys from kraftwerk , and approaches them in the ridiculous attire of a bavarian count replete with a cane , dark glasses , and a false beard ( just in time for halloween ! ) . 
 " do you have a castle ? " 
sylvie asks dobie seductively when he flashes the bulging contents of his wallet outside a coffee shop . 
 " jah . 
with ze many turrets " is dobie's perplexing reply . 
the real " star " of the film ( and i use that term extremely loosely ) is katie wright , who plays the sculptress of the title . 
sarah is new in town , studying at the prestigious sf art institute under the mentorship of a " genius " frenchman , played by the beret-wearing patrick bauchau . 
that's convenient , because sarah would one day like to live and work in paris ( you won't believe the film's final shot , with its cheesy eiffel tower backdrop and " rosemary's baby " -inspired imagery ) . 
bauchau's character criticizes sarah's work publicly ( her clay busts keep turning into gargoyles--perhaps she's possessed . . . 
by an incubus ! ! ? ) but he still manages to talk her into dinner . 
whereas wright does a decent english accent , her talents pretty much end there . 
on the other side of the wall , dobie's troubled past is succinctly summarized in a scene in which he thumbs through an old scrapbook of newspaper clippings with headings like " actor delivers a stunning macbeth , " actor courted by hollywood studio , " " actor renounces hollywood for priesthood , " and " prostitute fingers priest in sex scandal . " 
the film's plot could have been just as easily condensed . 
 " artist moves in next door to shakespearean psychopath . " 
 " yawns ensue . " 
so dobie rants and raves and sarah chips away at large blocks of granite till way past their bedtimes . 
late in the film , their paths finally cross with mind-numbing results . 
nobody else in the apartment complex appears to mind all the racket , but one old dear does go ballistic when sarah's bathtub overflows . 
no , we don't see wright in the tub ( or fahey for that matter ) , and the gore quotient is virtually nil , so for a horror film " the sculptress " is surprisingly lacking . 
the only thing worth looking at is san francisco , and writer/director ian merrick manages to make even it look dreary , windswept , and deserted . 
 " the sculptress " isn't even bad enough to be fun . 
luckily , a limited release has made it easy to avoid . 
here is a movie that sadly follows the hong kong-recipe of moviemaking and storytelling to the letter . 
these kinds of movies are marked by an eye-opening sequence that introduces us to the main characters ; a life-and-death plot in which these characters become involved ; the inclusion of a host of inconsequential characters ; ridiculous subplots , and sunglass-wearing henchmen . 
that is not to say that i don't like hong kong influenced movies ; however , it is quite obvious that these moviemakers haven't a clue that the american filmgoer needs more than hip-hop-talking thugs and stupid sight gags . 
observe the opening sequence . 
a band of hitmen are about to storm an apartment , led by melvin ( mark wahlberg ) and cisco ( lou diamond phillips ) . 
they are waiting for their partner to cut off the power so that they can storm the apartment with the help of infrared goggles . 
however , their partner is unsure of which cable to cut . 
he is undecided . 
this happens for about 10 seconds . 
the audience finds some humor in his foolishness . 
the lights suddenly go out . 
cisco is surprised and says : " whoa . . . let's 
go ! " 
and they storm the apartment in a very nicely executed sequence . 
the big hit of the title refers to a kidnapping that happens a quarter of the way through the film . 
needing cash , cisco devises a plan to kidnap the daughter ( china chow ) of wealthy japanese industrialist jiro nishi . 
however , the daughter is also the god-daughter of paris ( avery brooks ) , who is cisco's and melvin's boss . 
infuriated and insufferable , paris commands cisco to uncover the mastermind of the kidnapping . 
during his 'investigation' , cisco singles out melvin as the ringleader , and paris orders his capture and execution . 
melvin must now find a way to stay alive . 
by the way , do you know how the investigation takes place ? 
cisco's partner makes the ransom phone call believing that his call will not be traced because of a trace buster that prevents tracing . 
but , mr . nishi has a trace buster buster . 
to counter that , cisco's partner has a trace buster buster buster . 
but nishi has a trace buster buster buster buster . 
and so on . . . 
there is no doubt that this is an interesting world in which they live . 
and there are lots of issues that we'd like to know more about . 
how does melvin justify his profession to his fiancee ? 
what goes on among this clique ? 
why is cisco at odds with melvin ? 
there is actually a lot of potential material that could have been explored , but it seems that no effort is made to go in that direction , and instead we are given a not-so-engrossing plot filled with one-liners , silly sight gags , extraneous sub-plots and tomfoolery . 
and , i haven't even mentioned his financee's visiting parents who want them to separate , nor melvin's mistress , nor the pimple-faced video clerk demanding the return of an overdue video and on and on and on . 
if the big hit signals the future of hong kong style movies that are made for american audiences , then shoot me now . 
after the huge success of " the exorcist " in 1973 a sequel was inevitable , and sadly like most horror fims that make money , the filmmakers decided to make a ridiculous sequel , that makes absolutely no sense at all , and to me was extremely pointless , wasting linda blair and max von sydow completely . 
needless , dumb sequel flopped in the box office , and never gained much success though it is voted as one of the worst sequels of all time , to which i agree with . 
to start the " story " it is four years later , and regan is being tormented by memories of what used to be , now a priest played by richard burton , is trying to figure out why this demon tried to possess regan , and now the demon somehow wants to possess her again ( maybe she was good or something ) . 
now they must try to stop this demon from taking over regan's body , before it is too late . 
some of the bad things exorcist ii has in it is : linda blair , she had no need to revive her character , and she is really terrible in this film , she brings it down to a lull , and in places it seems like it just stops in its place , and doesn't go anywhere . 
louise fletcher is alright for what it's worth , but she could have done a lot better than this . 
the direction by john boorman , is that of a confused , stylish nature that i really couldn't figure out . 
in fact , i had no idea what was going on in this film , the script was jumbled , the plot was jumbled , and the ending is just laugh out loud hilariosly bad . 
for those exorcist fans who haven't seen this one , i recommend renting it . 
i actually gave this one a high rating , if it were any worse it would have deserved zero pumpkins , i went easy on it however because of the fact that it has a bit of good direction , but nothing else ! 
im not saying i like the film now , so dont start going anywhere . 
bad , bad , bad movie . 
the people who populate the movie 54 are shallow , self-absorbed and self-indulgent . 
in other words , they perfectly mirror the era as well as the movie this feature depicts . 
54 is the story of that well-publicized new york disco , studio 54 , the in-place in the '70s where anybody who was anybody went to be ogled , photographed and pampered . 
the difficulty with 54 , which was written and directed by mark christopher , is that his script takes no point of view . 
christopher neither condemns nor glorifies the legendary excesses that were studio 54's hallmark . 
he keeps an uninvolved distance , thus keeping us from forming any emotional attachment with any of the protagonists . 
the movie's one main asset is the surprising performance by mike myers as steve rubell , the famous owner of the nightspot . 
he is part rebel , part dreamer , part shrewd entrepreneur . 
he's smart enough and childlike enough to pander to the dreams and desires of his clientele , yet stupid enough to brag on tv about hiding profits from the irs . 
myers , in his first straight character part , is in turn appealing and appalling . 
at one moment he can try to pressure a male employee into a sexual situation , then at the next moment apologize for his bad behavior and offer the young man a handful of cash . 
the story is told by shane o'shea ( ryan phillippe ) , a new jersey lad who dreams of crossing the river to the big apple . 
shades of john travolta's brooklyn-bound tony in saturday night fever . 
eventually , shane does come to new york , attracts rubell's eye and is admitted to the promised land . 
his looks get him a job as a busboy , and he is later promoted to the prestigious position of bartender , where he mixes with and makes drinks for the rich and famous . 
shane's dream is to meet soap star julie black ( neve campbell ) , a fellow garden stater . 
but both characters are so sketchily drawn that even when they do hook up , it's no big deal . 
the chemistry between shane and julie is nonexistent . 
54 is a very cold , uninvolving movie . 
it's all strobe lights and glitz , all substance . 
it's sort of like the musical era it covers . 
i've always been a kevin kline fan , silverado , fish called wanda , pirates of penzance , and even his hamlet on pbs' great performances . 
the minute i saw the trailer for this film , i resolved to see it . 
besides the fact that kline starred , it looked like a hilarious film . 
i got sucker punched by the trailer to an extent , however , as i also thought , " wow , if there's this much funny stuff in the trailer , there must be a ton of laughs in the rest of the film . " 
 ( oops ) i packed up the wife and headed to les cinemas del diablo ( my name for our local multi-multi-plex . ) 
the film began . . . . 
the film concerns an english/drama teacher at a suburban high school , named howard brackett . 
he loves poetry and great literary works , but his class is more interested in his famous former student , played by matt dillon . 
 ( i'd put in his name , but my wife won't let me take notes during a movie and i've forgotten it . ) 
they continually interrupt his long poetic expositions with fawning questions about him . 
brackett has been engaged to another teacher ( played by joan cusack ) for three years , and has finally gotten up the gumption to marry her . 
the wedding , however , becomes the big question mark of the film as this famous student of his says during the live oscar broadcast that brackett is a homosexual . 
kline spends most of the first two-thirds of the film frantically trying to convince everyone that he isn't . 
the whole town begins to examine every detail of his life and begins to identifying all those things that confirm his sexual preference . 
his closest friends don't help matters , bringing nothing but barbara streisand laserdiscs to his stag party . 
there are some genuinely hilarous moments , one involving a tape geared towards helping men assert their masculinity . 
kline is hounded by a gay reporter played by tom selleck , who waxes poetic on the benefits of coming out , while at the same time doing his best to exploit the situation for his own sleazy tabloid machinations . 
the movie moves along fine and slowly builds to the climax of the wedding . 
kline stands at the altar and is asked to take his vows . . . 
if you want to be surprised , don't read , i am going to reveal the ending . 
 . . . instead of saying " i do " in front of his parents and most of the town , and even some cameras , he says " i'm gay . " 
this is where the movie , in my opinion falls apart . 
most of the humor in the film had come from kline's insistence that he was straight , while at the same time , loving poetry and being a senstivie guy , dressing well , and occaisionally acting prissy . 
it reminded me of the " effeminate heterosexual " sketch from saturday night live . 
it was funny , it was sustainably funny , and kline's performance made it doubly so . 
however , after the wedding , the film drags on . 
they should have attempted to come to a quick conclusion , but it then gets into the serious side of what he's done . 
he reconciles with his parents and his friends , some of which had turned on him . 
there are several scenes which seemed like a waste of time , the scene with his mother and her friends , which was hilarious , seemed pointless , and the scene with tom selleck in the bar with joan seemed pointless . 
finally , even though i am not catholic , i found the scene with the priest to be condescending . 
the preist cannot believe that a man was engaged for three years and had not consumated the relationship , proclaiming to brackett in the third person , " he's gay . " 
it got a chuckle from the audience , but i was distracted by it , and began to tire of the film . 
by the time the wedding had come and gone , i found myself hoping it would be over soon . 
 ( much like this review you are saying ) 
overall , if i have to quantify it , i say , rising action gets * * * * and climax and falling action gets . 
see it in economy time . 
a month ago i wrote that speed 2 was the worst film i've ever reviewed on paper . 
i didn't know at the time that i'd soon encounter and despise batman & robin , which has just overtaken speed 2 as the picture least worthy of your attention this summer . 
as directed by joel schumacher ( who now specializes in batman sequels and john grisham adaptations and isn't very good at either ) , b & r is one long excuse for a taco bell promotion . 
the plot , which has mr . freeze and poison ivy ( uma thurman ) planning to take over gotham city and then " the vorld " ( as an oddly ineffective schwarzenegger states ) , is weighted down by repetitive asides about the nature of trust , partnership , blah , blah , blah . 
but morals are not the point of this film--topping each bloated , confusing action scene with next one is . 
the garish art direction and overlit cinematography make this picture oddly comparable to the trashy showgirls . 
since when did gotham city become a giant las vegas hotel ? 
only george clooney comes out on top ; he underplays nicely and pretends like he's in a real movie . 
call " hush " " stop or my mom will kill . " 
or " mommy fearest . " 
or " the hand that robs the cradle . " 
call it whatever you want , but certainly don't see it unless you're in desperate need of a bad movie-induced chuckle -- " hush " scores so many unintentional guffaws that it almost qualifies as a guilty pleasure . 
chalk its losses up to frequent stupidity lapses and apparent post-production tinkering ( it was supposed to open about a year ago ) , the latter of which appears to have given " hush " a send-off that's downright infuriating . 
it's too bad that " hush " is so laughable , because the on-screen talent -- including the pairing of gwyneth paltrow and jessica lange -- is nothing to laugh at . 
paltrow and johnathon schaech play helen and jackson , a photogenic new york couple on their way to spend christmas vacation at his wealthy , well-to-do family's horse farm/estate kilronan . 
jackson's mother martha ( lange ) runs kilronan all by herself , and her genteel southern hospitality makes helen feel welcome immediately -- even if her first meeting with martha takes place while helen is in the altogether , caught red-handed after a bedroom romp with her husband-to-be . 
but it seems that martha's friendly smile masks a much more threatening demeanor ; she's what you'd call someone who loves too much . 
martha eagerly , deviously wants a grandchild , and then helen will be expendable , as far as she's concerned . 
if there's one reason to catch " hush , " it's lange . 
she treats the pedestrian screenplay better than it deserves to be treated , injecting martha ( poorly written though she may be ) with a little empathy to level out the psycho-playing field . 
when she delves into martha's dark side , predictable cliches -- chain-smoking , staring in mirrors , praying in a confessional to a priest who isn't there , poking a hole in helen's diaphragm so she'll become pregnant ( and she does ) -- abound , but it's moderately entertaining junk because lange is such an interesting actress to watch . 
veteran performer nina foch is smart and tart as jackson's wheelchair-bound paternal grandmother . 
the rest of the cast looks ill and uncomfortable , especially paltrow . 
but can you really blame them ? 
the character relationships in " hush " hold a certain amount of promise , at least until their psychological impact is blown out of the water by sheer stupidity . 
idiotic situations ( martha yells at a nearby horse so it will bolt up and knock helen over ) compliment idiotic dialogue ( " why did you yell ? " 
helen yells back at martha ) , and the film takes the form of one of the shoddier fill in the blank-from-hell flicks ever made . 
you can see through a great deal of martha's actions and lies from their conception ; why do people who have known this woman for years longer than we have never figure things out ? 
does nobody communicate or read the newspaper in this town ? 
if any of her potential victims thought , acted or behaved like normal people , " hush " would be a really short movie . 
and then there's the climax and ending , which abruptly come when helen starts having contractions after eating some pound cake spiked with a labor-inducing drug normally used on horses . 
after a really weird chase scene , martha calmly knits in a rocking chair while forcing helen to give birth in a bed all by herself . 
i won't spoil what happens next except to say that it's contradictory , illogical and ( probably , since i'm no doctor ) medically impossible . 
the final scene offers no closure , no resolution , no confrontation whatsoever . 
it's just there , dangling amidst silent displeasure . 
no one should like this ending , regardless of their feelings on the preceding material . 
perhaps " hush " 's title is a plea to silence its audience's likely bitter word of mouth while exiting the theater . 
a big , busy boxing satire with a surprisingly paltry punch , the great white hype stars samuel l . jackson as a shameless boxing promoter whose plan to boost sagging pay-per-view revenues is to " invent " a white contender ( peter berg ) to challenge his black heavyweight " champ " ( damon wayans ) . 
 ( the logic is that people will pay more to see black vs . white than black vs . black . ) 
he may be right , in an absurdly accurate way , but the film doesn't give us a reason to care . 
as a scathing sports spoof , hype is just that : unfunny , unfocused , and , at times , just plain pointless . 
as a commentary on race relations , it's even * less * effective . 
the dialogue is the best of this mess , lines like jon lovitz exclaiming " i cannot make caviar out of fish eggs ! " 
writers tony hendra and ron shelton also do good on the street slang , though we never hear enough of it . 
the script isn't strong enough , though , to support the aggressive camera work of director reginald hudlin ( house party ) . 
he comes across as absolute overkill . 
the great white hype * almost * turns around at the end , at the big match , when hudlin attempts an extended gag of rock-concert proportions . 
with costumed dwarfs , gangsta rappers , and the " champ " dressed as death , only then do we get a glimpse of the spoof that should've been . 
i know there were times during this movie that i laughed pretty hard . 
the problem is , i can't remember them as i write this review . 
that's not a good sign . 
in booty call , jamie foxx is bunz , a character whom i can't really describe , because i don't know that much about him . 
i only know that he likes to shoot dice on the sidewalk , and that he doesn't like relationships , just " booty calls " at three in the morning ( no questions , no commitment ) . 
bunz has a best friend named rushon ( tommy davidson ) , who seems to be bunz's direct opposite : on the straight and narrow , and currently in a long-term commitment ( a whole seven weeks , wow ! ) . 
rushon wants to finally sleep with his girlfriend , nikki ( tamala jones ) , but for a reason which is not totally explained , it's going to happen after a double date with bunz and nikki's friend lysterine ( vivica a . fox ) , who have never met . 
to make a long story short , the two couples pair off and spend the rest of the evening having their attempts to do the deed spoiled by nikki's obsession with safe sex . 
first she wants condoms , so bunz and rushon go out and get them . 
oh , no , they have to be latex , not lambskin . 
back to the store . 
now they've got to get dental dams , or there'll be no foreplay . 
why are both couples stopped each time nikki makes a demand ? 
nikki phones lysterine , who lives across the hall , and tells her she'd better be making these demands , too . 
talk about coitus interruptus . 
booty call is a film that does not know whether it wants to be a regular comedy or one of those over-the-top comedies . 
the difference between the two is that in the latter , things constantly happen which are so far removed from reality . 
in this category , for example , you have ace ventura : private eye on the mild side , and airplane ! 
at the extreme . 
there are times during booty call where the film steps out of its shell and tries for this status , but then too often quickly retreats to the safety of convention . 
it is disappointing , and even worse , distracting . 
there are also instances where the screenplay by takashi bufford and bootsie parker ( are those real names ? ) 
does not live up to its potential , as jokes are left unexploited or even ruined by bad writing . 
for instance , there is a scene where our main characters are in a chinese restaurant . 
bunz goes up to an asian gangster and speaks to him in fluent cantonese , much to everyone's surprise . 
however , when asked how he learned the language , he goes into this explanation of how he started picking up words from late-night kung-fu films , and soon gained mastery . 
this negated the ludicrousness of the entire scene . 
if , on the other hand , when asked how he learned to speak chinese , bunz simply replied with , " kung-fu movies , " and then moved on , the joke would have been much more effective . 
this is because it would have been totally unbelievable , but funny because we know it is unbelievable . 
by explaining the point and trying to make the ridiculous plausible , the film is not giving its viewers enough credit . 
the inconsistency and uncertain believability unfortunately also raise other questions . 
why are two such disparate people like bunz and rushon best friends ? 
why do rushon and nikki fix up bunz and lysterine ? 
if nikki is so obsessed with safe sex , why doesn't she have some condoms at her own apartment ? 
these questions are not answered by the screenplay , but are overlooked for the sole reason of moving the plot forward . 
a very noticeable quality of booty call is the prevalence of unnecessary foul language . 
some movies use a lot of swear words , but use them under very justifiable circumstances , as when they are employed consistent with a character's pattern of speech . 
other films , such as the recent jackie brown , use them in ways that almost parody themselves . 
booty call just sticks them in to get laughs , and it doesn't work . 
they stick out like sore thumbs because there is almost no reason to use them . 
half of the scenes seem to occur for no reason . 
the chinese restaurant , a holdup at a convenience store , and a trip to the hospital seem to have nothing to do with the story , and are in there for filler . 
this is surprising , considering that the film is less than eighty minutes long . 
it's too bad that the core of the film isn't much better , since it is comprised of sometimes funny , but forgettable dialog . 
i refer you to the first paragraph of this review . 
retelling the classic story of joan of arc has been a popular trend this year . 
earlier this may , leelee sobieski played the passionate title role in the top-rated miniseries that debuted on cbs . 
and now , director luc besson has delivered his version of the sweeping epic about the teenage girl supposedly sent by god to rescue france from the clutches of their enemies . 
starring milla jovovich , who is predominantly unconvincing as the heavenly messenger accused of being a witch , `the messenger : the story of joan of arc' is a disjointed and overblown historical re-enactment that prevails merely as a bloated mistreatment of the famous legend . 
besson ( who's previous work includes the hyperactive sci-fi `the fifth element' ) perhaps entrusted a bit too much faith in ex-wife jovovich , because in `the messenger' , the actress is drowning in a pool of her own inexperience . 
at first , when reports were indicating that jovovich had been chosen for such a demanding role , i was highly doubtful that her marginal talent could carry a film of such a caliber . 
after seeing the rousing trailer , my hesitant optimism suddenly skyrocketed - milla jovovich looked superb . 
with the hopeful propulsion of her stellar performance , `the messenger' looked like a timeless epic in the making . 
a timeless epic it is not . 
besson is hesitant to abandon his unique and flashy style , and the story behind `the messenger' is not entirely suited to his demands . 
on the shoulders of besson's choppy and unexciting direction , the film dissipates into an uninspiring hodgepodge of poorly executed battle sequences and bizarre imagery . 
there is no human exploration into the character of joan ( or jeanne ) . 
jovovich merely rambles on about the power of god when we have little or no insight into her visionary objective . 
jovivich's unsatisfying portrayal only helps lead to the realization that besson sees jeanne as a piece of spiritual cardboard . 
she is just another special effect in this continuous visual feast . 
jovovich does have a few isolated moments of sheer power , but mainly , she looks lost . 
quite frankly , i don't know of any actress who could successfully navigate her way through `the messenger' without a major fumble . 
the script is chock-full of laughable dialogue and unfortunate comedy , as jeanne confronts the uncrowned king charles vii ( john malkovich ) and informs him of her heavenly intentions . 
faye dunaway plays charles' overbearing mother-in-law , and dustin hoffman appears over two-hours into the story as a character dubbed ? the conscience' . 
all three actors juggle limited screen time , although malkovich is uncharacteristically awful . 
the battle scenes are extremely bloody , but with the presence of such jittery camera work , they capture none of the excitement or finesse of something like `braveheart' . 
there's a particularly graphic and unsettling scene early on , when jeanne ( as a young girl ) watches in horror from a closet as her older sister is murdered and then savagely raped by a bloodthirsty english soldier . 
even his fellow troopers are petrified . 
`the messenger' is also strictly a 90's update on the classic story . 
almost too 90's , it seems . 
there's gratuitous use of the f-word and a barrage of slang terms like `she's nuts ! ' 
sprinkled throughout the screenplay . 
i was half-expecting jeanne to invite her homeys to come chill in her crib , but it never happened . 
there's also the familiar presence of bizarre besson humor , but none of it comes even remotely close to functioning properly . 
it seems terribly misplaced , but in a catastrophe as jumbled and disjointed as `the messenger' , almost everything does . 
the musical score by erric serra is spectacular , and the set and production designs are continuously impressive . 
if it was visual excellence that besson was striving for , then he achieves his goal . 
but the only time the dramatics come alive in `the messenger' is during the closing trial , in which jeanne is found guilty and burned at the stake . 
during these moments , the historical relevance and dramatic purpose of joan of arc reaches the audience , albeit in a faint stream of light that provokes little power or meaning . 
it's just too delayed for besson to revive his lifeless interpretation , in which he is always concerned with the wrong aspects . 
`the messenger : the story of joan of arc' is an unlikely and unwelcome historical addition to the hollywood shelf . 
anyone searching for an entertaining epic is going to be painfully slapped with an overblown and confusing film . 
despite my original hopefulness , milla jovovich is not going to have to worry about thanking the academy . 
violence is bad . 
violence is ugly . 
violence breeds yet more violence . 
kids , don't try this at home . 
this weighty message isn't the only barrier to enjoying brother , but it's certainly one of the largest . 
written , directed by , and starring the infamous takeshi kitano ( kikujiro , sonatine ) brother is his first film made outside his familial japan , bringing the yakuza tradition to los angeles . 
 ( yakuza translated for the average american is the japanese mafia . ) 
if you piss a " family " member off , or dishonor yourself in any way , the usual punishment is public display of self-mutilation , usually resulting in the loss of limbs . 
a definition of dishonor can be anything from making a stupid decision to leaving one family for another . 
it would be interesting to know more about where these and other customs come from . 
unfortunately the film doesn't give too much of an explanation , assuming its audience is aware of kitano's earlier work . 
there are several shots that focus specifically on detailed tattoos that spread across the entire back of the yakuza members , leading one to assume they would be symbolic of something , but you never know what . 
then there's a scene in which a man kills himself in front of a rival in exchange for that rival joining the family . 
granted , this is one of the best scenes in the movie , but it doesn't make a lot of sense . 
instead , the two hours are basically spent watching the following : people go out and shoot each other , talk about it for ten-plus minutes , then go out and do it again . 
the consistently repetitive discussion of territory during these moments involuntarily provokes yawning . 
there are also plot details thrown in for no identifiable purpose . 
all of the sudden yamamoto ( kitano ) has a girlfriend . 
he barely speaks to her , treats her like crap , and then sends her away . 
another missed opportunity , considering it is such a big deal for kitano to bring his magic to the united states , is the combination of cultures , which rely too heavily on overused stereotypes . 
though slow moving , brother does have good elements . 
the action scenes are well directed , clearly defined , and interesting to watch . 
some of the violence is more hinted at than shown , which produces the luscious squirm that one goes to see such films for . 
the actors would be more enticing if they had more to do . 
shirase's ( masaya kato ) loud , sarcastic coolness set against yamamoto's quietly threatening attitude is truly an entertaining combination . 
their moments together or apart steal the rest of the show . 
also to its credit , brother tackles the cause and effect of crime with realism . 
a life of crime is easy to get sucked into with the first reward of quick cash . 
sure people get rich , but they can also lose just as easily . 
it's a great moral , with a great cast , just not much substance to back it up . 
there ? s nothing quite like a gory anime . 
really , and this is the truth , no other genre in film gets away with such violence without a word being said in the media about it . 
with anime , a common shot is watching a body getting quickly cut in two , and the rest of the insides falling out seconds afterword . 
this is a standard practice in anime , or at least the half dozen or so titles that i ? ve seen . 
vampire hunter d is a gory , gory film . 
if they ever made a live version of the film , it would be banned in several countries and given a rating somewhere below xxx . 
it ? s not that it ? s gore is unique - it ? s just like other gory animes - but this one was supposed to stand out because of the complexity it ? s story , characters , animation , etc . . . 
it really didn ? t . 
it was disgusting and gruesome , which overshadowed the story , what little of it there was . 
it seems that in the not too distant future vampires and evil control the world , because god knows that our local police force just can ? t seem to get a handle on vampires in the movies . 
one evening , a blond peasant girl , drawn to look 17 and innocent ( a foreshadow that we will see her naked , i guessed early on it would be in the shower or in a rape scene ) is out fighting evil in her local forest preserve when she stumbles onto the private property of a ten thousand year old vampire ( insert strom thurmand joke here . ) 
of course , he never put a ? no trespassing ? sign on his yard , so one can ? t really blame her , but he ? s upset anyway and demands retribution . 
she gets the obligatory bite on the neck ( aren ? t there other places to get blood from ? 
it seems like a bite in the elbow would do well enough . 
if it's good enough for doctors to draw blood from , then why do vampires stray from that sight ? ) 
to fight the spell , she enlists the help of a mysteriously tall , dark and handsome vampire hunter ( you guessed it , his name is d ) . 
the vampire hunter is torn between fighting vampires , being attracted to the 17 year old peasant girl and finding reasons not to talk too much . 
you see , like all heroes in these kinds of stories , he ? s a brooder , who ? s sole purpose in life is to remain really , really silent . 
when he speaks , it ? s in cliches . 
heroes like this are bad when they ? re live , even worse when animated . 
later the vampire hunter storms the castle to meet the big bad vampire , who wants to marry the peasant girl because he ? s bored after 10 , 000 years of living ( the only clever vampire insight made in the movie ) , will vampire hunter d rush to save her in time ? 
will we see blood and intestines spattering on every place imaginable ? 
in it ? s defense , the animation , when focusing on being original rather than recycling anime slicing , could at times be original . 
the talking hand was clever - and i think the inspiration for a skateboard-related logo . 
and that ? s the best defense i can think of . 
i understand that vampire hunter d is supposed to be a fave among anime fans , but i really don ? t see it . 
it ? s an excuse to watch blood dripping from teeth , blood exploding out of eye sockets and horses necks , and most importantly , like all violent anime , it is an excuse to see animated breasts . 
why ? 
what is the point of that ? 
maybe i have to understand the genre and look past the obsessive gore and mysogny . 
i ? m not a prude , i just don ? t think it ? s warranted . 
it puts itself so far out in front of the movie that everything else gets lost . 
is there a neccesity in seeing a 17 year old in the shower ? 
of course not ? it ? s done for shock . 
it ? s tasteless and despicable . 
lauded as a genius by many , stanley kubrick commands a superlative filmography that includes such critically-acclaimed films as " 2001 : a space odyssey , " " a clockwork orange , " " lolita , " and " dr . 
strangelove , or : how i learned to stop worrying and love the bomb . " 
now , sadly , he's added " eyes wide shut " to that impeccable body of work and his final film is the first and only blot on his near-flawless copybook . 
kubrick , alas , should have quit while he was ahead . 
this much-publicized psycho-sexual tease-a-thon , with its star billing of real-life marrieds tom cruise and nicole kidman , is nothing more than one long ( two-and-a-half hours long ) boring exercise that features kubrick operating with talent wide shut . 
kubrick , faithless to arthur schnitzler's 1926 novella " dream story , " has confused eroticism with nudity . 
he has confused intellectualism with talking slowly . 
he has confused profundity with pretentiousness . 
in addition , the director has made some strange casting choices , leaving sydney pollack in and leaving accomplished performers harvey keitel and jennifer jason leigh out . 
pollack , the director of such box-office hits as " tootsie " and " out of africa , " is normally solid in his occasional acting stints but here he's miserably out of his depth . . . 
and there isn't much depth to begin with ! 
unhappily , there's not likely to be a director's cut of this film to determine whether the decision to exorcise keitel and leigh was the right one . 
in fact , with the exception of the stark black-and-white credits , snatches of baroque music on the soundtrack , and many , many grainy tracking shots down lavishly-decorated corridors , there's none of kubrick's trademark brilliance in this film . 
it doesn't help that the story , as delivered , is ridiculous . 
cruise and kidman , who bring little more than marital torpor to the project , play well-to-do new yorkers bill and alice harford . 
he's a doctor and she's an unemployed art gallery director and they share a central park west address . 
at an opulent party hosted by their friend victor ziegler ( pollack ) , alice gets a little tipsy and starts dancing with a jeremy irons-like hungarian , who's singularly determined to get her in the sack . 
bill , too , is seen arm-in-arm with a couple of models before he's pulled away to deal with an overdoser . 
back home , bill and alice smoke a little pot before alice's aggressive jealousy kicks in . 
as retribution , she confesses to her husband that she once had deep feelings for a naval officer she eyeballed at a hotel where she and bill once stayed . 
this hurtful admission sends bill into a tailspin ; he pounds the streets of the village in his heavy black overcoat struggling with black-and-white images of alice in the grip of a horny midshipman . 
it's all way too much for him . 
for revenge , bill almost has sex with a hooker . 
he almost has feelings for a underage girl he sees in a costume store . 
then he almost does the hooker's roommate . 
and he's almost involved in an overblown rococo orgy when an old college chum of his tips him off to a mysterious , password-protected party where everyone wears masks and " the women are incredible " ( i . e . , naked ) . 
this " erotic " set piece , a cult-ish bacchanal complete with chanting , incense , and lots of strategically-placed partygoers covering up the dirty , might impress the likes of hugh hefner , but it's a lot less shocking than it's intended to be . 
what's the big deal ? 
bill doesn't exactly * do * anything ( other than throw his money and credentials around ) , and alice only ever lusted in her heart . 
whoop-dee-doo . 
still , they make up at the same agonizingly slow pace--was kubrick , notorious for multiple takes , paying them at an hourly rate ? 
even geniuses have their bad days . 
 " eyes wide shut " just happens to be kubrick's bad day , an unerotic , disappointing , and altogether pointless end to an otherwise memorable career . 
by starring in amy heckerling's " clueless " two summers ago , alicia silverstone proved she wasn't just another pretty , pouty ingenue , showing a buoyant comedic craftiness that blew all previous jobs -- namely a stint as the aerosmith girl and a silly turn as the lethal lolita of " the crush " -- out of the water . 
her only work since that 1995 gem has been in june's " batman & robin , " where she overcame the underwritten role of batgirl . 
now , she's the star and producer of " excess baggage , " a hopelessly phony film that demonstrates how an ill-composed story can drag an otherwise solid performer down to its level . 
silverstone's emily t . hope is stuck with a billionaire father ( jack thompson ) who neglects her emotionally . 
in an outlandish plan to gain his affection , she fakes her own kidnapping -- emily uses an electronically disguised voice to call her dad and set a pricey ransom , ties her legs together and mouth shut with duct tape and locks herself in the trunk of her bmw . 
but before the police can " rescue " her , professional auto thief vincent roche ( benicio del toro ) jimmies the locks , hot-wires the engine and makes off with both the car and emily , who's still trapped in the back . 
when vincent discovers emily , the two don't exactly hit it off -- she annoys him , he annoys her , and at the advice of his slimy car salesman partner ( harry connick , jr . ) , he decides to drive her out to the middle of nowhere and leave her there . 
along the way , of course , they get into a whole heap of trouble , and come to realize that being together is the only way to get out of their sticky , felony-studded situation . 
it doesn't help matters that emily and vincent are being trailed by cops , crooks and even her shady uncle ray ( christopher walken ) , who's wise to his niece's ploys for attention and has mafia connections . 
for at least a half-hour , " excess baggage " bounces along fast and efficiently . 
during this time , emily and vincent sport engaging personalities as well as a nice role-reversal twist -- she's an awfully aggressive , combative victim and he's quite the aloof , seemingly vulnerable captor . 
but once it's past its set-up , the situation suddenly becomes uninvolving as the story tries to be too many things at once . 
a road movie , a teen comedy , a mob thriller , a drama about family relationships -- you name the cliche and " excess baggage " likely covers its territory . 
of course a romance develops between the two leads , but it all seems forced , and thus characterization is manipulated to cause the finally happy outcome . 
 " do you like my tummy ? " 
emily coos to vincent at one point in the film . 
huh ? 
did i miss something ? 
the hard-edged , foul-mouthed grrrl is suddenly gone and replaced with a pair of batting goo-goo eyes . 
then again , " excess baggage " becomes so weak in so many areas that the personality transplant is not a complete surprise . 
a supporting cast attempts to do what they can with colorful but empty secondary roles , but the movie isn't game enough to use them all and therefore seems overcrowded . 
motivations keep shifting , resulting in an often confusing narrative . 
scant existing story background confuses matters even worse and adds to the growing list of unanswered questions . 
 " excess baggage " has too many characters , too much plot and juggles with one arm behind its back and a remaining shaky hand . 
i loved silverstone's turn in " clueless " as an aloof , pampered beverly hills matchmaker inspired by jane austen's " emma . " 
looking back at the skill she displayed for comedy there , it's simple to justify any high expectation or enthusiasm that i had mustered for " excess baggage . " 
sadly , however , " excess baggage " is no " clueless . " 
but , on the other hand , it is clueless . 
 " . . . because i'm a scientist . 
that's what we do ! " 
--- dr . alexander mccabe ( bob gunton ) , in response to why he created evil bats . 
alright folks , stop me if you've heard this one : genetically altered animals wreak havoc on a town and a small band of locals , assisted by a specialist in the particular animal's field , must team up to stop the mutant creatures before they can multiply and spread across the earth . 
oh yeah , the military is on their way to bomb the town as well , so they are running short on time . 
sound familiar ? 
such is the plot of the destination films release of bats . 
dina meyer stars as the " bat specialist " sheila , who is pulled from her research ( along with her annoying sidekick , played with irritating deftness by leon ) in order to help a small texas town figure out why some local citizens and animals have been chewed to death recently . 
with the help of the local sheriff ( lou diamond phillips ) , a cdc official ( carlos jacott ) , and a scientist ( bob gunton ) , sheila discovers it is indeed bats ( who have been genetically altered by gunton's character to be more aggressive and omnivorous , in order to be used as a military weapon ! ) . 
i have to say here that i knew exactly what i was getting into going into this film . 
there's not a frame of promotional footage i have seen for the film that would have led me to believe it was going to be any good . 
in this respect , the film never disappointed me . 
this film reaches a level that transcends the " so bad it's good " level and borders on the downright insane . 
the effects are awful , the script is contrived , and for most of the feature i was laughing at things that were supposed to be taken seriously ( i think ) . 
i challenge anyone to sit through the scene , where a bat stalks a baby in a crib while another bat terrorizes a patron eating at a diner , with a straight face . 
thankfully , the performances are as good as they can be considering the material the actors had to perform with . 
dina meyer has always been the highlight of any of the films she has been in ( johnny mnemonic , dragonheart , and starship troopers . . . 
the latter being the only film out of that batch with any actual merit ) , and this one is no exception . 
while one never really gets the impression that meyer's character could be a bat expert in reality , one never really cares to doubt it either . 
she gives as good a performance as could be expected , plus she's nice to look at for an hour and a half . 
lou diamond phillips is also serviceable here , as the small town sheriff turned eventual hero . 
although when we first meet his character he knows bats are the reason for what's going on in town , for some reason later on he suddenly becomes amazed to learn that the actual cause of the deaths in town are because of bats . 
the only bad performance in the film is that of leon's . 
he is relegated to the " i'm not sticking around here ! " 
character and proceeds to repeat variations of that line for the majority of the film even though he stays . 
anyone who can't immediately tell that bob gunton ( the bad guy in patch adams and countless other films ) is going to eventually turn on the gang and side with his creations before his eminent death will probably be surprised , but i highly doubt it . 
even if he hadn't been the villain in just about every film he's ever been in , so many obvious hints are given to indicate the devious act that it holds no shock whatsoever . 
in fact , his death is welcome , because it finally starts moving the plot towards the finale . 
if the plot doesn't sound ridiculous to you yet , then check out these little tidbits : a multitude of bats inexplicably disperses when a police officer cocks his pistol . 
an entire town disregards the sheriff and doctor's orders to stay indoors after a curfew is instigated , causing mass hysteria when the bats come out in full force , killing several townsfolk . 
a government official blows off shelia's instructions ( to wait until dawn to install a cooling unit in the bats' cave that will kill all of them off ) by pulling a night job , resulting in the death of an entire military unit . 
a cavern full of bat feces never ignites when a phosphorus flare is lit right in the middle of it . 
finally , to top it all off , this little texas town is showing nosferatu in it's single screen theater ( for reference , our town has over a million people in it with nearly 150 movie screens , and we're lucky to even get kevin smith's dogma ) . 
the most laughable part of the movie though comes from the ill-conceived bat puppets . 
while the actual bat attack scenes are shot with rapid fire editing ( making the scenes nearly impossible to comprehend what's going on ) , the scenes where a bat is called upon to interact with a live actor are usually shot more low-key . 
therefore we the audience get loving close-ups of the most unrealistic , rubbery bat puppets ever committed to film . 
being able to see the puppeteer's arms would be the only things that could have made these creations worse . 
after all of this , if you still decide bats might be the movie for you , don't say you haven't been warned . 
trust me when i say that it's a lot more fun to trash than it is to sit through . 
i just wish that dina meyer would be cast in more roles or at least choose better films to appear in . 
she's definitely a talent that is going to waste in films like these . 
the word to describe sharon stone is " wonder " . 
not that she _is_ a wonder , but rather that i wonder how she can be so inconsistent . 
she has a dynamic screen presence in " basic instinct " , turns in a surprisingly fine acting job in " casino " , but possesses neither of those here . 
stone teams up with private school headmaster's wife isabelle adjani to kill adjani's thoroughly unlikable husband ( chazz palminteri ) . 
in a comedy of errors and unexpected twists straight out of hitchcock ( as in `homage to' [read " steal from " ] ) , it turns out that someone saw them or he's not dead or maybe . . . 
kathy bates turns in a credible , if unspectacular , performance as an investigative police detective . 
her character is a bit dull but realistic , although her actions at the end are puzzling . 
adjani is more than satisfactory as the timid beaten spouse driven to desperation . 
it's stone that is a disappointment among the actors . 
how can she be the epitome of a femme fatale in previous films and come off as a blank in this one ? 
costumed in skin-tight clothes and looking down her nose at everyone , she is someone you would want to avoid because she is boring , not enticingly dangerous . 
even the threat ( or promise ? ) of a lesbian relationship between the conspirators is only half played out . 
on the positive side , there are enough unexpected plot developments to keep your interest alive . 
that is if you can put up with stone's cardboard cut-out character and scenes directly lifted from hitch's movies . 
the tagline on random hearts reads " in a perfect world , they never would have met . " 
in a perfect world , i never would have seen this movie . 
the biggest flaw is that 20 minutes into this film , kay chandler ( kristin scott thomas ) and dutch van den broeck ( harrison ford ) are the only two major characters alive ; resulting in little doubt that they will end up together at some point during the laborious two-hours-and-then-some production . 
dutch is a sergeant in internal affairs at the district of columbia police department . 
kay is a congresswoman from new hampshire . 
although they both think they are happily married , their spouses are cheating with each other behind their backs . 
dutch and kay are soon widowed when a plane goes down carrying their partners ; they subsequently discover the affair . 
the rest of the film is the pointless , unrealistic and often-times boring story of their researching the sexual relationship that they were blind to , and getting to know each other in the process . 
two sub plots are of little help to the already problematic film . 
dutch is trying to arrest a fellow officer , a task that seems rather ordinary for hollywood fare . 
all the great stereotypes get pulled , including my personal favorite of the key witness that makes bail and is murdered soon thereafter . 
kay's distraction from the film's primary focus is her campaign for re-election and attempts to shield her 15 year old daughter from the truth about the father she put on a pedestal . 
these sub plots could have made for semi-interesting points , but the film seems afraid to explore politics or mother-daughter relations in depth , and consequently suffers . 
random hearts' two primary characters seem to live in shells . 
although both kay and dutch are given their own sub plots , they seem to never deal with anyone other than themselves or each other . 
there is plenty of opportunity , dutch having a partner and kay having close friends and her daughter , but the movie shies away from exploring these relationships . 
veteran actor and director of this film sydney pollack , and critically acclaimed up-and-comer dylan baker both have cameo roles , but be careful not to blink too much or you will miss them both . 
other than its weak plot , it is hard to criticize random hearts . 
however , it is also hard to compliment it . 
had the film taken some small risks and more fully explored its extra characters and plots it may have tasted more like a well frosted cake , rather than the dry one that equates to be . 
in double jeopardy , the stakes are high . 
think of the plot as a rehash of sleeping with the enemy , and then rearrange the details and the gender of the stalker . 
the finished product , although able to maintain the viewer's attention , is a predictable and unexciting thriller with an idiotic script . 
`alex , i'll take homicide for $400 . . . ' 
libby parsons ( ashley judd ) is a happily married mom leading a normal life . 
one night , her husband nick ( bruce greenwood ) takes her out for a romantic escape on a sailboat . 
libby awakens in the middle of the night to find she is covered in blood and nick has strangely disappeared . 
she follows a trail of bloody footprints up to the deck , where she handles a fallen knife ( like any stupid character ) and is spotted by the coast guard , who are responding to a distress signal sent earlier in the evening . 
nick is presumed dead , and although she pleads her innocence , libby is tried and convicted for the murder of her husband . 
now , please don't think i'm spoiling any vital plot details , because the informative trailer has already spilled most of the beans . 
if you haven't seen this preview , don't read any further . 
but seriously , the inane screenplay by douglas weisberg and douglas s . cook is so elementary that the average viewer will be two or three steps ahead of the characters . 
during the most vital scenes in the movie , i was anticipating every twist or `surprise' that eventually popped up on the screen . 
i imagine the writers presume their core audience for double jeopardy is a very naive group of individuals . 
most , unfortunately , will be too distracted by the moronic plot to appreciate the few positive aspects of the production . 
one is tommy lee jones , who plays travis lehman , a parole officer given the tedious task of watching over libby after she serves her sentence in prison . 
jones is always wonderful as an authority figure , and he's certainly familiar with this sort of role ( as he played so well in the fugitive and us marshals ) . 
judd , as a likable heroin with gusto , also has a chance to flex her acting abilities . 
while emotionally unconvincing , the actress is tremendously fun in her juvenile role , perking up the movie like an injection of anti-depressant . 
the actors , and their relationship together , present the one-two punch that prevents double jeopardy from derailing itself entirely . 
and now , back to the plot . 
while behind bars , libby learns an interesting little bit of information : a person can't be convicted of the same crime twice . 
this law , called `double jeopardy' , could be her motive for hunting down her husband . . . 
who may still be alive . 
yes , you heard right . 
the movie degenerates into a cross-country chase , where everything you expect to happen . . . 
does . 
the final scenes , which could have redeemed the film , are poorly handled by director bruce beresford - whose previous work centers highly around drama ( driving miss daisy , paradise road ) . 
ironically , it is those elements - like the driving force of libby to reunite with her son - that don't quite work here . 
at least double jeopardy is paced well enough to satisfy diehard fans of the two stars . 
unfortunately , jones lacks some of the edge that he had as sam gerard in the fugitive , and the real depth of his character is only skin deep . 
but he and ashley judd are more than welcome considering the material , and both have some memorable comic moments . 
judd , in particular , has a hilarious scene in which she wards off an oncoming male by explaining she has to check in with her `parole officer' . 
hmmm . . . 
perhaps this would have made a good comedy . 
it is disappointing , because there are the makings of a competent action film here . 
it's nicely shot and choreographed in downtown vancouver , and will entertain those who aren't turned off by the woeful story-line . 
 ? tis a shame that double jeopardy is an adult thriller that wouldn't fool most children . 
synopsis : melissa , a mentally-disturbed woman who likes to smoke , seduces doug , a minor-league baseball player who likes to study anatomy , work on motorcycles , and make out with his girlfriend in a public library . 
when doug decides to stop seeing her , melissa maliciously takes revenge on those around him , including his girlfriend , his mother , and his cat . 
comments : malicious , i suppose , is an acceptable moview for what it is : a cheap , b-movie thriller which rips off dozens and dozens of spurned-psycho-lover-who-wants-revenge films ( like fatal attraction , hand that rocks the cradle , etc . etc . ) that have come before it . 
malicious , however , really doesn't provide very many particularly suspenseful moments . 
the plot starts off energetically enough , the main characters are introduced and the affair between doug and melissa begins and ends pretty early on in the film . 
it starts to drag , unfortunately , after this . 
melissa will obviously try to take her revenge on doug ( as always seems to happen in movies like these ) , but she does so in unimaginative ways that have been done in other , better thrillers before . 
she drugs someone . 
she kills a family pet and leaves it in the girlfriend's apartment . 
and , of course , she stalks , so we see a number of shots , which are supposed to be suspenseful , where she's spying on doug and his girlfriend . 
i won't reveal the ludicrous ending to this turkey , but i warn you that it's both painfully obvious and a real yawner . 
john vernon does a remarkably good job at playing the not-so-bright baseball jock who initially gets swept away by melissa ( one of the script's faults is to try to pass off a character like this as a pre-med student ) . 
the same cannot be said , though , for molly ringwald . 
at times , she can effectively pull off the obsessed lover routine , especially during her silent , i'm-going-to-stare-you-down scenes . 
at other times , however , she just seems somehow goofy and out of place . 
in one particular scene which i guess was supposed to be suspenseful , she screeches " f--k you , you b-----d " and throws a phone . 
she delivers the line so ridiculously that one can't help but laugh . 
malicious certainly isn't the worst thriller of its kind out in the video racks ( a number of really fat turkies in this genre are out there ) , but it isn't all that good or original either . 
feel free to treat this film maliciously , watch something else . 
warner brothers ; rated pg-13 ( mild violence , sexual situations ) ; 132 minutes 
director : luis mandoki 
screenplay : gerald di pego ( from the novel by nicholas sparks ) 
cast : kevin costner , robin wright-penn , paul newman , illeana douglas , robbie coltrane , jesse james , john savage . 
review by : geoff berkshire 
i'm not an overly cynical guy . 
there have been many glossy hollywood romances that have carried me away with their romanticism over the years . 
however , i have my limits and i also have standards . 
this brings us to the subject at hand : message in a bottle , the big ticket romance that warner brothers' unleashed upon the movie going public just in time for valentine's day . 
the story , what little of it that there is , involves boring chicago tribune reporter theresa osborne ( robin wright-penn ) dealing with her recent divorce and trying to raise her young son jason ( jesse james ) . 
during a brief stay somewhere in new england she finds the titular message in a bottle while on a morning run by the ocean . 
the letter , written to a mystery woman named catherine , instantly captivates her . 
upon her return , theresa shares it with her best friend lina ( illeana douglas ) , her boss charlie ( robbie coltrane ) , and the entire city of chicago ( the newspaper publishes an article about it ) . 
it turns out that the message was written by grieving widower garret blake ( kevin costner ) and so theresa travels to north carolina and tracks him down . 
he turns out to have a colorful father ( paul newman ) but is otherwise perfectly dull and overly obsessed with sailing . 
this is somehow attractive to theresa and the two begin their awkward courtship . 
of course she doesn't tell him that she found his letter , she wants to but the rules of this type of film require him to find out later ( preferably right after they first make love ) . 
this way garret can get very angry and the relationship can be threatened . 
the discovery of the message and garret's discovery that theresa discovered the message are really the only two noteworthy events that happen during the nearly two and a quarter hour running time of this film . 
there's a truly lame subplot about garret's relationship with his dead wife's family ( he gets into a bar fight with her brother , played by john savage ) and then the necessary tear-jerking ending . 
a fun way to pass the time is to take bets on exactly who will die , although it becomes pretty clear by the second reel . 
the actual death sequence is one of the most ridiculously forced , and unintentionally humorous , sequences filmed since . . . 
well , since costner's the postman ( 1997 ) . 
message in a bottle is one slow moving film . 
last year audiences were offered endurance tests such as the horse whisperer and meet joe black but both of those films resemble jerry bruckheimer productions next to this . 
they also had redeeming qualities in the form of quality performances and some stand out technical work . 
message in a bottle has a decent enough cast but they're fighting the material all the way , and losing badly . 
costner and , especially , wright-penn are both likable and attractive enough to cheer for but their characters are simply too boring . 
they also fail to generate any kind of real romantic chemistry . 
the supporting players are given very little to do . 
the reliable douglas is particularly wasted . 
old pro newman gives his all and occasionally threatens to kick some life into this dead horse of a film . 
a confrontational scene he has with costner near the end is especially well played . 
however , too frequently he just reminds us how unexciting our lead characters are . 
the film is very polished on the technical side to be sure but it only works to undercut the story . 
gabriel yared , who previously set the romantic moods of the english patient ( 1996 ) and city of angels ( 1998 ) with his scores , overdoes it a bit here . 
caleb deschanel's camera makes everything look a little too beautiful . 
do the offices of the chicago tribune really need to look heavenly ? 
the editing by steven weisberg is troubling not only considering all that could have been cut out but is also simply messy at times . 
the real offender here is screenwriter gerald di pego . 
working from a best- selling novel by nicholas sparks ( which i have not read but have been told is on the same literary level as the bridges of madison county ) , di pego creates one of the most uninspired scripts of recent times . 
its strict adherence to clich ? s brings to mind such disasters as i still know what you did last summer ( 1998 ) . 
there simply isn't an original scene in this film . 
the dialogue is rarely better than laughable and this is only accentuated by the excessively long pauses every character takes while speaking . 
this is director mandoki's first film since when a man loves a woman ( 1994 ) , the solid meg ryan/andy garcia romance . 
he's simply going through the motions with this . 
message in a bottle is easily the worst of the several romantic offerings available in theaters at the moment and vies with what dreams may come ( 1998 ) as one of the most misguided romances of the decade . 
disconnect the phone line . 
don't accept the charges . 
do anything you can to avoid the wretched , melodramatic sisterhood dramedy `hanging up' . 
i figured i needed to get in touch with my feminine side , and `hanging up' seemed like an ideal opportunity to do so . 
the film features an incredible palate of female talent , and the capability behind the camera brought to mind such sparkling gems as `sleepless in seattle' and `unsung heroes' . 
meg ryan , diane keaton and lisa kudrow play a trio of sisters who , once separated by career judgments over family ties , must reunite when their father ( walter matthau ) is admitted into the hospital with alzheimer's disease . 
while this may read like an optimum opportunity to rekindle their relationship and reflect with poignancy on the past , the script by sisters delia and nora ephron is exasperating , shapeless dreck teeming with emotional fakery . 
`hanging up' has the overall effect of a tele-marketer pestering you for two hours , while you don't have the option of doing as the title suggests . 
for the first half-hour , the ephron sisters use telephone conversations for a basis of character development . 
this is an annoying and ineffective device . 
cell-phones ring every five minutes , and everyone hurriedly rushes along , leaving marginal time for the frustrated viewer to relate to the sisters' issues and problems . 
if `hanging up' was an apple pie , then i felt as if we were getting the mere crust of the story . 
granted , there are a few genuine and sincere moments in the film . 
but they only help to establish that the remainder of the strained emotions are nothing but inferior dramatic muck . 
the most outrageous strategy in `hanging up' is that , after a series of largely unrealized attempts at character development , we are expected to exhibit compassion and courtesy toward the sisters as they join for a melodramatic finale . 
we are able to identify with eve ( ryan ) , the most open and caring daughter , because she is the one who stayed by her father's side as everyone else moved forward to pursue a impending career . 
georgia ( keaton ) , the eldest daughter , is celebrating the fifth year anniversary of her magazine called . . . . 
`georgia' . 
maddy ( kudrow ) , the soap opera actress , spends time either contemplating her possible path to stardom or nursing her dog . 
ryan's convincing performance and diverting cuteness are two of the more agreeable aspects of `hanging up' . 
kudrow , so delightfully eccentric as the off-kilter airhead phoebe in `friends' , is totally wasted . 
ditto for keaton , who is serving a double shift as co-star and director - a time slot that can be a difficult priority juggle . 
her frenzy is apparent . 
for a chick flick , there is a distressing lack of chuckles . 
the reliable matthau is reduced to chaotic shtick that , given his character's situation , seems more depressing than amusing . 
even so , the peak form of humor in `hanging up' is represented by some of matthau's nasty quips and ryan's eternal battle to have the aforementioned pooch swallow a pill . 
that about accounts for the three or four chuckles you will expel during the film . 
my curiosity has suddenly been tweaked to discover how such a promising and star-studded approach could turn so viciously sour . 
but really , it's no mystery . 
the predictable , melodramatic filth that is `hanging up' is certainly not the fault of these actresses . 
pin it on the screenplay , which attempts to clear up vital issues in three or four minutes , while spending the rest of the running time in an annoying flurry of phone conversations . 
it's certainly a far cry from what one would label as a rewarding experience , but `hanging up' should have at least been enjoyable . 
uh-uh . 
it's a wrong number from the beginning . 
running time approximately 1hr 40mins 
reviewed by jack choo 
rating : 
the movie starts with a rather se7en-ish opening sequence , rather cool and sets the mood for things to come . 
the story propels the audience into a neo-reality ; somewhat very close to conscious reality but laced with weird tinges of blue and red . 
existenz is actually the name of a new virtual-reality game . 
supposedly , vr games are highly popular as is considered a legal-drug in this neo-reality . 
 * * * * ( leigh ) is the ultimate game creator and introduces her ultimate game-experience in the form of existenz . 
players are required to have bio-ports embedded in their spine , which plugs to a game-pod in order to enjoy the immersive experience . 
during a secretive beta-testing-cum-teaser meeting for this new game , an assassination attempt on * * * life occurs and she runs off with fellow bodyguard * * * ( law ) . 
 * * * is more of a realists than anything else , afraid that he'll lose reality if he begin to play these games but * * * requires his help to immerse together with her into existenz to check if the program is still functioning properly after the assassination attempt . 
as they soon discover , they are transported between realities within existenz uncovering more than they initially expected . 
existenz has all the cronenberg-gore that is expected of him . 
even so , this film is no-where near his cult classics such as videodrome or scanners . 
not even half as suspenseful as the commercially successful the fly . 
existenz can probably be looked upon as his 90's version of videodrome , even so , it is a poor follow-up . 
while in most of his famed films , his penchant for gore always hit the right note with theme of the film and plot . 
in existenz , the gory sequences are no more attached to spirit of the film and seem to be an act of over-indulgence than anything else . 
jennifer jason leigh and jude law , both commendable actors , looked aloof and miss-directed throughout the entire film . 
the scripting and acting barely pulls the film out of the b-grade category . 
it was obvious that cronenberg worked on a really tight-budget and it seems that he handled that pretty well in the production design and values created for this film ( the opening sequence , though , probably formed a considerable portion of the budget ! ) 
which is actually quite good . 
existenz is too predictable and cliched in these times . 
10 years ago , it would have been another classic for cronenberg . 
cronenberg fans however , ( those people who enjoy seeing friends getting queasy over mutilation on film ) should not give this film a miss as some form of appreciation can still be offered by you . 
in china in 1982 i turned the tables on our national guide and asked him if he had any questions about america . 
i guess i was expecting some sort of political question . 
instead , i was dumfounded by what was most on his mind . 
 " in america , do wives and their mothers-in-law get along well ? " 
he assured me in china that they did , but i am certain if that were true he would not have asked . 
even in china people seem to have problems relating to in- laws . 
perhaps some of life's most difficult relationships arise when families are suddenly artificially joined by marriage . 
a man trying to relate to his new prospective in-laws and vice-versa could be the basis of a very strong comedy . 
meet the parents does not demonstrate that fact , however . 
greg focker ( played by ben stiller ) has been dating and in love with pam byrnes ( teri polo ) for ten months and is now ready to propose to her . 
he will do it during a weekend visit to meet debbie's family and to attend her sister's wedding . 
from the beginning the relationship is awkward between greg and jack and dina byrnes ( robert deniro and blythe danner ) . 
through no fault of his own , the airline has lost greg's luggage . 
and he has to ask to borrow clothing . 
it is the beginning of a game of one-upmanship in which greg is nearly always one-down . 
as the games go on greg is more and more uncomfortable and uneasy which only contributes to the mistakes he makes . 
greg is playing a game he does not understand , in a league he is new to . 
but perhaps along the way he will discover some unexpected secrets about his father-in-law . 
this film had potential in its tale of one-upmanship . 
it has hit on a situation that many in the audience may find familiar--one that has not been done overly frequently in films . 
but the script by jim herzfeld and john hamburg is a little too contrived . 
too many coincidences in the story work against greg . 
the script could not decide if the main character was incompetent or simply unlucky . 
certainly he does not help his situation by doing everything wrong he possibly could , but even when he is trying to do the right things nature conspires against him . 
there is an uneven mix of slapstick sequences and human comedy . 
certainly the last part of the film feels awkwardly written . 
the main reason to see meet the parents is to see robert deniro's performance . 
deniro plays the suspicious and not a little fascistic father as tightly wound and threatening as he can . 
the little judgmental expressions on his face are a show in themselves as greg digs himself deeper and deeper into his insecurities . 
but we do not really see much of that digging . 
ben stiller is an affable presence in the film but is not really stretching himself by playing the role as the nebbish to whom so many bad things happen . 
it is nice to see blythe danner again on the screen . 
but her character has a basic conflict between a basic decency and her love for her husband and the script should have given her more to do with that . 
randy newman has written a playful score . 
in the first few seconds of the film it does something creative i have never heard a film score do before . 
there is a lot of source music that is popular music of the 1960s . 
presumably that is what the upper class listens to at least in somebody's imagination . 
humor is subjective and some this film has been getting some favorable comment . 
but this is a comedy that works only occasionally for me . 
i would have to rate it 4 on the 0 to 10 scale and a 0 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
the " fab 4 " of ronald reagan high are four stuck-up girls , played by rose mcgowan , rebecca gayheart , julie benz and charlotte roldan , who overdress like 4 posh spice wannabes . 
their daily ritual is to parade up and down the school halls like royalty , and their constant reflex action is to grab their compacts so they can check their make-up and powder their cheeks . 
under no circumstances will they ever let themselves be seen eating in public . 
in writer and director darren stein's jawbreaker , it isn't as funny as it sounds . 
in fact , it isn't funny at all . 
stein has taken the black comedy of a teen movie like heathers and stripped it of any intelligence , wit or charm . 
his actresses toss off their lines so fast that they don't have time to add any emotion . 
and all of his female characters have considerably more lipstick than brains . 
the setup for the movie has one of the fab 4 , liz , who is referred to as " the princess di of reagan high , " be killed when a prank by the other 3 goes wrong . 
the princess di reference is in bad taste , as is much of the movie . 
granted , bad taste can sometimes be funny , but the mere presence of bad taste doesn't guarantee it . 
liz's girlfriends stick a jawbreaker that is literally larger than a golf ball in her mouth , tape her mouth shut , and stick her bound body in the trunk of a car . 
when they open the trunk later , liz is dead . 
they eventually put her blue and bruised body into a sexual position and make it look like liz was the victim of a brutal rape . 
these realistic and disgusting scenes of a dead , seminude teen have a pornographic feeling that is hard to forget and will likely turn the stomach of many a viewer . 
the film's dialog not only isn't funny , it's trite . 
one nerdy young girl introduces herself with " my name is fern mayo , as in hold the mayo . " 
when fern discovers what has happened , the fab 3 make her an offer she can't refuse -- make-up ! 
they cake it on her and welcome her to the clan . 
the parents in the movie brag about learning parenting skills from watching oprah . 
the teachers fare no better , especially in the ridiculous lines they are given . 
 " miss shayne , please cover your bosom , " one young teacher , who has been made up to look old and ugly , says without any conviction . 
 " this is a learning institution , not a brothel . " 
besides the obvious question of why this movie was ever made , there is one other question that i'd like to ask the director . 
why do you have a phone number start with 555 if you going to cover the rest of the number anyway ? 
in a cameo , pam grier plays detective vera cruz , who investigates liz's murder . 
as she interrogates the other people , she stares at them like they are all idiots , proving that she is the only one that gets it . 
i am sure that if the hard nosed detective cruz were to see this movie , she'd walk out after about 5 minutes , and you'd be well advised to do the same if you should happen to find yourself in a theater showing it . 
jawbreaker runs 1 : 27 . 
it is rated r for violence , gore , profanity and sex . 
i would advise everyone to avoid it , but if teenagers go they should be older and mature . 
hollywood never fails to astound me . 
every time i think those coked-up little buggers have hit rock bottom ; they come up with a new excavating tool . 
i was truly convinced that " wild wild west " marked 1999 studio filmmaking at its most hapless , but then along comes " end of days " to prove me wrong . 
this big budget , brain dead apocalyptic thriller bludgeons its audience with overwrought music , grisly violence , explosions galore and lots of cheesy special effects . 
the result ? 
nothing but groans and yawns . 
even the devil himself is unable to produce a decent scare in this festival of the inept . 
at the very least , " end of days " should have done us the courtesy of being bad-enough-to-be-good , but it can't even manage that . 
it's just lousy . 
arnold schwarzenegger , still recovering from heart problems and " batman & robin , " plays an ex-cop turned security agent or bodyguard or something . 
along with his obligatory comic relief partner ( kevin pollak , impersonating matthew perry's chandler character from " friends " ) , he gets involved in some major league supernatural hoodoo . 
it seems that satan ( gabriel byrne ) gets a shot at world domination only once every thousand years ( and here i thought he'd pulled it off with the republican landslide of '94 ) . 
if he has sex with 20-year old christine york ( robin tunney ) , " the chosen one , " their child will be the antichrist , or at least a brat . 
ah , but this deal has more catches than a new year's eve pass from a halfway house . 
the unholy union must take place on december 31 , 1999 ( you see , 999 is just 666 turned upside down ) , but only between 11 p . m . and midnight ( no wonder this guy is so cranky ) . 
and if the chosen one is given refuge in a church , the devil won't know where she is , because he can't see into the sanctuary . 
you know , it's kind of like superman's x-ray vision and lead walls , only evil . 
a group of guerrilla catholic priests decide the best way to stop the situation is by killing the girl . 
arnold chooses to save the girl and kick the hell out of satan , if you'll pardon the expression . 
and kevin meets up with an exploding van and has to make some decisions of his own . 
oh , the anguish ! 
oh , the humanity ! 
oh , the writing ! 
andrew w . marlowe's screenplay ladles implausibility upon implausibility , from the preposterous otherworldly histrionics to his handling of jericho cane , schwarzenegger's character . 
cane starts the film a la mel gibson in the first " lethal weapon , " preparing to put a gun in his mouth due to ongoing despondence over the murder of his wife and daughter . 
twenty minutes later , he's racing through the bowels of new york city , deciphering clues that sherlock holmes and kreskin would find baffling . 
when cane meets up with christine york , he instantly switches to terminator father figure mode , with the young woman serving as surrogate daughter . 
in case anyone misses the connection , the camera comes in for a close up of christine's music box , which just happens to be identical to one owned by cane's daughter . 
subtle , marlowe , subtle . 
speaking of cameras , director peter hyams is just the man to take marlowe's script and make it even more self-important , murky and annoying . 
hyams' direction shows all the subtlety of a gwar video , with cane running a gauntlet of ridiculous action set pieces , punctuated with loads of big explosions . 
eager to satisfy arnold's core audience , he even throws in a few pairs of breasts as well . 
what a guy . 
had the film delivered some decent scares , or even maintained a consistently ominous tone , the bombastic clich ? s might have been tolerable , but " end of days " is simply a flaccid special effects show . 
the cast is just as ineffective . 
in his early scenes , gabriel byrne attempts to invest beelzebub with some panache , but he all too soon turns into just another standard issue monster . 
kevin pollak comes and goes quickly , robin tunney comes off like a bargain basement winona ryder and as for arnold , well ? he's a better actor than casper van dien . 
that should count for something . 
way back in the aftermath " the exorcist " and " the omen , " supernatural swill like " end of days " might have passed muster as a b-movie . 
but that was then and this is now . 
 " the x-files " and " buffy the vampire slayer " deliver real scares on a weekly basis and , if we want to see the devil , all we have to do is flip on " the 700 club " and take a gander at pat robertson's grinning maw . 
after enduring " end of days , " all i can say is " get thee behind me , satan . 
and while you're at it , get thee a better agent as well . " 
i have little against remakes and updates of older films and tv series . 
if there's a will , there's a way ; and i believe that anything , no matter how great or revered can be effectively improved upon . 
this is the reason that i responded so well to gus van sant's universally panned update of psycho ; i thought it to be not only an intriguing cinematic experience , but also very on-par with an original . 
but i do have a big problem with remakes that are blatantly bad . 
you see , the point of a remake is , or at least it should be , to iron out the original's flaws and bring the work that much closer to greatness or even perfection . 
but what if the source material on which the remake is based isn't any good to begin with ? 
that is the only cinematic question pondered by the bland actioner the mod squad . 
i've only seen a couple episodes of the late 60s tv series on which it is based , and to be honest , i didn't like it all that much . 
it has a concept that -- and still is -- interesting ; a group of corrupt young adults , all in their early 20s are given a choice : they either go to jail for the various crimes that they all have committed , or they can become undercover cops , helping the police get into places that they normally wouldn't be able to access . 
obviously , all 3 opt for the latter option and become undercover policemen ( and policewomen ) . 
the three main characters here are played by claire danes , omar epps and giovanni ribisi . 
of the three , only danes has a real character . 
ribisi's dumbass 20 year old is played exclusively for laughs ; epps' slightly more intelligent one is used to create various chase scenes . 
when the squad's superviser gets killed off and his reputation dirtied in death , the three of them , sure that their beloved master was framed , go off and investigate on their own , discovering corrupt cops , lots and lots of expensive whores and very lucrative drug operations . 
all kinds of good stuff ! 
the only times that the mod squad comes even close to working is in its comedic moments . 
although ribisi is a trite actor and his characters repeat movie after movie , his man here is really rather amusing , when the script gives him a chance . 
epps' straight man is effectively played against ribisi's clueless spontaneity . 
but the rest of the film is dull , boring and singularly uninteresting . 
a drug-op action plot is no longer anything new , not even with teenage action heroes , and the way it's executed here , it's also nowhere near exciting or suspenseful . 
claire danes' character has potential , but it is buried under heaps of cliches and her performance is too restrained . 
she could have been a tour-de-force , but instead director scott silver puts shackles on her and simply does not allow her to do anything really significant with her role . 
epps and ribisi fare slightly better and do as well as can be expected , although their characters aren't nearly as rich as danes' could have been . 
the mod squad is a mind-numbing marketing plot of a film , and teens will jump all over it . 
it's full of bad dialogue , scenes and concepts that make no sense and -- get this -- drug dealers that like to tango with other guys in their spare time . 
nothing is remotely intriguing or worth paying for . 
claire danes is no longer alluring -- mainly because she's got a horrible hairdo , so that draw is out . 
there are , however , cool explosions , guns and chases which may lure a viewer into thinking that he or she is about to experience an exciting thriller of some sort . 
do not be fooled . 
some may call this escapist fare -- i call it escape-as-quickly-as-you-can fare . 
when the mediums in question are video game and feature film , has there ever been a respective here-to-there transformation that achieved any ground higher than noodle-headed mediocrity ? 
 " super mario bros . , " " street fighter " and " mortal kombat " were silly stinkers all , and now the empty , execrable " wing commander " joins their lowly ranks . 
enduring this spectacularly bad bit of sci-fi , easily the worst of its kind , is like watching someone futz around with a video game for 100 minutes - that is to say , there's little fun to be had when you're not the one holding the joystick . 
the movie , then , is a missed opportunity for director chris roberts , who created the original , groundbreaking pc incarnation of " wing commander " back in 1990 . 
how an interactive brainchild so revered could end up such a cinematic pile of junk under the helm of the same guy is a head-scratcher . 
 " wing commander " 's story , credited to roberts and screenwriter kevin droney , is clueless chaos melding incoherent narrative and unoriginal ideas . 
it rips off the finest films of its genre , top gun and , in one scene , even those spiffy " stereoscopic freeze " gap commercials . 
set in 2654 , " wing commander " stars freddie prinze jr . as a daredevil cosmos cowboy who hopes to be a great fighter pilot like his father before him . 
along the way , he plays kissy-face with his stoic superior ( saffron burrows ) at the new galaxy hangout where he's posted , comes to terms with bigots who resent him for his " pilgrim " heritage ( don't ask ) , and goes on a top-secret mission involving the " jump coordinates " ( what , no death star plans ? ) of a nasty alien race known as the kilrathi . 
or something like that . 
given the immensely confusing activity , it's hard to tell . 
on the other hand , what's easy to see is that " wing commander " is a big old mess . 
the lame dialogue strains , filled with such original lines as " don't you die on me ! " , 
 " battle stations ! " 
and repeated ( and frequently unanswered ) calls for a " medic ! " 
action sequences fizzle . 
the character conflict garners unintentional giggles . 
the sole source of suspense here is what these kilrathi creeps look like , as they're kept out of view until the concluding 15 minutes . 
imagine bearded siamese cats crossed with something from a ? 50s roger corman cheapie and you've got a good idea . 
little but techno-babble happens for an hour , and then it's as if " wing commander " tries to do too much at once ; when it appears as though the movie's about to show signs of a pulse , it instead provides a hilarious touch of human drama culminating with a use for a bulldozer that has probably never been seen in this kind of space camp before . 
matthew lillard , featured prominently in said sequence , is cast as prinze's hotshot partner , and though the two are fine young actors - recently paired in the hit " she's all that " - they're fighting more than otherworldly evil here . 
rumor has it that " wing commander " was slated as a later-in-the-year release , bumped up to capitalize off this hot casting coup as well as the premiere of the new " star wars : episode i " trailer . 
but in my audience , there were no females present to make goo-goo eyes at prinze or lillard , and many a member exited after the much-ballyhooed sneak peek . 
since most cineplexes won't be granting refunds to the latter contingency , " commander " might rake in some dough , but be warned : the high wears off as soon as the coming attraction gives way to the feature presentation . 
it's almost amusing to watch 21-year old christina ricci get drastically overshadowed in sally potter's follow-up to 1997's the tango lesson , the man who cried . 
the gen-y actress , with her cold stare and big , black eyes , has appeared in an impressive range of films ; but she doesn't even come close to being the bold heroine the film , set against the historical backdrop of world war 2 , requires her to be . 
ricci , whose character is shockingly silent and blank , showing only the occasional smile or hint of concern , shares most of her scenes with the astounding cate blanchett : quite an amusing sight to behold . 
blanchett's lola , a paris dwelling dancer who befriends the aspiring singer suzie , is bold , interesting and layered ? everything our heroine lacks . 
co-star of the upcoming lord of the rings trilogy , blanchett has a good seven inches on ricci , sports twice the makeup and dons a flashy wardrobe . 
the actress inhabits the role ? as she always so remarkably does ? with a fervor and life that makes you want her to hold the screen as the film's lead rather than her dull companion . 
important historical events involving hitler and his nazis scatter themselves across the film ; these landmarks serve as the film's little conflict . 
obviously , the tables are turned in the life of suzie by these events , whose jewish origin is unknown among her parisian colleagues . 
the man who cried has many aspirations , none of which come full circle by the film's close . 
there are forced messages here and there : " go forward ; always go forward , " lola preaches to suzie ; there's romance between suzie and a fellow target of hitler's nazis , the gypsy cesar ( johnny depp , who , like ricci , barely gets to speak ) ; lola struggles with her character that desires above all things wealth and men who have it ; and at the core of all these devices lies suzie's desire to travel to america , where her father journeyed after leaving her and her mother years ago . 
the film's main problem is that potter isn't skilled enough to tell the epic-sized story of suzie . 
the time period's instability , the conflicting social classes , the prejudice against suzie from all those around her in her new life : serving as both writer and director , potter throws in some of each , but hardly an inch of depth is to be found in any . 
by the time the sigh-inducing climax hits , the believability and complete absence of focus leave one ready to leave the theater . 
the film's falling action is weirdly unsatisfying and unlikely ; are we really meant to believe any of this could happen ? 
contrastingly , in its moving final scene , the man who cried strikes a note that is made effective in its ties to the emotional beginning of the film . 
although it's apparent that potter can't grasp what she reaches , i'm puzzled as to why she reaches for so much in the first place . 
ricci's suzie is meant to be the film's core : from the extended flashback at the film's beginning to the quickly drawn ending , everything seen in the film , in some way , relates to her . 
so why then does potter spend so much time on subplots involving other individuals ? 
the character of suzie is too present for the man who cried to work as an ensemble , but not present enough for the film to be ricci's . 
the almost constant lack of flow and one-note tone with which potter depicts the man who cried are somewhat improved upon by sacha vierny's beautiful cinematography that renders the film's various locations wonderfully . 
also worthy of note are lindy hemming's costumes that help to depict the area quite nicely . 
and then there's the music . 
from minute one to minute ninety-seven , there's hardly a moment when the wavering , skilled voice of an opera singer or the rhythms of the gypsy music don't undercut the action ; the notes stricken both overwhelm ( particularly john turturro , portraying fictional opera singer dante dominio , whose money and reputation catch lola's interest ) and accompany ( oftentimes , the perfect chords are captured to undermine the state of the film's characters and reinforce that state ) . 
potter obviously cares much about each and every musical note ; unfortunately , the same effort isn't given towards ( almost ) everything else . 
sandra bullock in high heels and wielding a chainsaw ? 
yup , it's gotta be summer . 
just when you thought the pointless sequel had gone the way of franchise films and direct-to-video releases , into port slams speed 2 : cruise control , the gloriously godawful follow-up to the 1994 sleeper about a bus rigged to explode if it slowed below a certain speed . 
the gimmick , this time , is an ocean liner rigged to , well , crash into stuff . 
sound exciting ? 
dennis hopper's disgruntled bomb squader , the villain of the first film , has given way to willem dafoe's disgruntled computer programmer , a maniac whose main beef has something to do with having to use live leeches , i kid you not , as a self-treatment for copper poison- ing . 
 ( and said poisoning induced by prolonged exposure to electro- magnetic fields , no less ! 
calling dean edell . . . ) 
so , he overrides the boat's computer , convinces the crew to abandon ship , and sends the remaining passengers , those who couldn't evacuate in time , on a col- lision course with destiny . 
 ( oddly , no one thinks to just . . . 
jump off the back of the boat . ) 
with keanu reeves electing not to return-- perhaps he read the script ? -- 
the job of john mcclane goes to jason patric ( sleepers ) , as the * second * la cop and swat team member that that bus drivin' babe annie ( bullock ) has dated . 
 ( what are the odds ? ) 
they're on this caribbean cruise for pleasure , as are a handful of requisite stock characters , including a deaf teenager ( ! ) who has a crush on the hero ( ! ! ) who also knows how to sign ( ! ! ! ) . 
 ( and you thought the raptor slam was a cool summer movie move ? 
wait till you see the feats that * this * little girl can do , when stuck on a shipboard elevator ! ) 
bullock is her pesky , perky self , though she ends up with far less screen time than her top billing suggests . 
 ( those paying attention to her bikini- and tank- tops probably won't complain , however ) patric is the main man in motion and that's damn good , 'cause when he stops to talk , he's only slightly less monotone than his predecessor . 
 ( his first lol line is to ms . bullock : " i'd like to boogie with you . " ) 
of course , nobody in front of the camera embarrasses themselves quite the way that returning director jan de bont does . 
he also produced this mess , which is insulting even by the most lax summer standards . 
 ( con air , buddy , father's day , romy and michelle's high school reunion , murder at 1600 , 8 heads in a duffle bag , anaconda , vegas vacation , meet wally sparks , metro , bevery hills ninja , the relic , all is forgiven ) . 
worse , he's spent a hundred mil on a premise that doesn't even live up to its title ! 
there's no sweat-inducing motion of the ocean here-- just two hours of shaky handheld camera work and a handful of cross-cut exteriors , all leading up to the big slam , when the love boat sideswipes an oil tanker and then plows into a harbor town . 
 ( oh , how far we've come in twenty years . 
remember the simple fun of seeing a locomotive smash into railway station in the silver streak ? ) 
admittedly , either of the aforementioned sequences is worth the price of admission . 
it's just the rest of the movie-- the other hundred or so minutes-- that's pure nonsense . 
and wonderful nonsense at that . 
i know he didn't intend to , but de bont has done one thing right : he's created the hands-down funniest film of the year . 
so , now , allow to present a few more things that made me laugh : 
o a box with a big label : " fiber optic converter " 
o plain english , whole-sentence computer instructions 
o an entire sequence devoted to opening a fire door 
o jason patric's character walks onto the bridge and immediately understands everything that's happening 
o a ships' navigator who speaks in a scottish accent and actually gets to say " i canna override it ! " 
o willem dafoe's amazing arm-mounted keyboard 
o two living , breathing adults ( bullock's character and the first mate ) who have to be told , step by step , how to disconnect a trip wire from the pin of a hand grenade . 
duh 
o " no wait ! " 
screams the ship's intercom 
o yet another damn dog in peril 
o fishing reel . 
pontoon plane . 
memories of weekend at bernie's 
how do films like mouse hunt get into theatres ? 
isn't there a law or something ? 
this diabolical load of claptrap from steven speilberg's dreamworks studio is hollywood family fare at its deadly worst . 
mouse hunt takes the bare threads of a plot and tries to prop it up with overacting and flat-out stupid slapstick that makes comedies like jingle all the way look decent by comparison . 
writer adam rifkin and director gore verbinski are the names chiefly responsible for this swill . 
the plot , for what its worth , concerns two brothers ( nathan lane and an appalling lee evens ) who inherit a poorly run string factory and a seemingly worthless house from their eccentric father . 
deciding to check out the long-abandoned house , they soon learn that it's worth a fortune and set about selling it in auction to the highest bidder . 
but battling them at every turn is a very smart mouse , happy with his run-down little abode and wanting it to stay that way . 
the story alternates between unfunny scenes of the brothers bickering over what to do with their inheritance and endless action sequences as the two take on their increasingly determined furry foe . 
whatever promise the film starts with soon deteriorates into boring dialogue , terrible overacting , and increasingly uninspired slapstick that becomes all sound and fury , signifying nothing . 
the script becomes so unspeakably bad that the best line poor lee evens can utter after another run in with the rodent is : " i hate that mouse " . 
oh cringe ! 
this is home alone all over again , and ten times worse . 
one touching scene early on is worth mentioning . 
we follow the mouse through a maze of walls and pipes until he arrives at his makeshift abode somewhere in a wall . 
he jumps into a tiny bed , pulls up a makeshift sheet and snuggles up to sleep , seemingly happy and just wanting to be left alone . 
it's a magical little moment in an otherwise soulless film . 
a message to speilberg : if you want dreamworks to be associated with some kind of artistic credibility , then either give all concerned in mouse hunt a swift kick up the arse or hire yourself some decent writers and directors . 
this kind of rubbish will just not do at all . 
miramax " disinvited " on-line media from press screenings of scream 3 . 
they ostensibly feared that folks like me would write spoiler-filled reviews and post them prior to the film's february 4th release date-unsound reasoning . 
you see , 'net critics established enough to be on any sort of vip list are professionals-miramax surely knows the difference between a member of the on-line film critics society ( ofcs ) and the type of fanboy who posts spy reports at ain't it cool news . 
no , the ? mini major' was afraid we'd let a bigger cat out of the bag than whodunit , that scream 3 is a dismal conclusion to the beloved ( by this writer , at least ) franchise . 
something smells rotten in the state of california right from the get-go : cotton weary ( liev schrieber ) , the former lover and would-be killer of maureen prescott , sidney's mother , is juggling phone calls in his luxury car . 
 ( once considered a danger to society , weary now hosts his own talk show , " 100% cotton " , a clever , if dated , jab at american pop culture . ) 
of course , a new ghostface dials him up , and , with memories of scream's unbearably suspenseful prologue in mind , we immediately wonder , where is the killer ? 
the backseat ? 
the next car ? 
thrilling prospects , to be sure , but actually , ghostface is at the weary residence , waiting for cotton's girlfriend ( kelly rutheford ) to finishing showering . 
what's missing from this sequence , and indeed scream 3's remaining frights ( most disappointingly , the moment when an ingenue is forced to hide in a wardrobe room filled with ghostface costumes , one of which might spring to life ) , is an elaborate and attenuated payoff . 
our other surviving regulars have become estranged . 
sidney ( campbell ) is living a paranoid existence of electronic gates and password-protected locks , while dewey ( arquette ) acts as technical advisor on the second sequel to scream 2's movie-within-a-movie , " stab 3 " , and gale weathers ( cox arquette ) headlines a gossipy news program . 
murder reunites them , as knife-wielding ghostface stalks the set of " stab 3 " , imitating its sadistic screenplay-and his/her/their own personal draft climaxes with sidney's death . 
the appeal of ghostface's villainy is that he/she/they could be your boyfriend , your classmate , your next door neighbour . . . or a combination of people . 
scream was the first of its kind : a slasher mystery , with the guessing game not only entailing who will be next , but also who is/are the perpetrator ( s ) and what is/are his/her/their motive . 
ironic self-reflection aside , parts one and two stand out in a crowd that includes umpteen friday the 13th and halloween flicks because there's at last articulate human beings behind the iconic costume . 
with scream 3 , the novelty of ghostface's ever-mutating identity has worn off some , but the character remains conceptually potent . 
conceptually . the execution of ghostface's master plan this time around is creaky , because screenwriter ehren kruger has invented a new mythology for the world of sidney prescott far afield from what we'd come to understand in scream and scream 2 . the movie gets in the silly habit of saying " all bets are off ! " 
in reference to the " rules " of a trilogy's third act , but there's a difference between rule breaking and cheating . 
with the departure of kevin williamson , who authored the previous screams as well as a tidy outline for scream 3 ( that , for reasons incomprehensible to me , was ignored , save the notion of " stab 3 " ) , kruger needed to be reined in tighter , and by wes craven . 
craven's direction of scream 3 is lazy in most respects . 
how else to explain the jay and silent bob cameo ( the slacker duo of kevin smith movies ) , akin to seeing mickey mouse pop up in mulan and more distracting than funny . 
it pains me to write this , but scream 3's comedy is generally laughless , with the exception of well-timed performances by josh pais ( as a police detective possessed of the same personality he had as a persnickety teacher in craven's music of the heart ) , jamie kennedy ( resurrecting film geek randy for the sendoff he was denied in scream 2 ) , and parker posey ( through sheer force of will as a b-actress ) . 
the visuals are much weaker in part three , as well-the occasional sweeping gesture of peter deming's camera is a pale imitation of the stalking steadicam craven gave us twice before . 
 ( aside : in the wake of columbine , craven toned down the violence significantly for scream 3-why the sanctimony , when scream and scream 2 are still readily available on video store shelves ? ) 
finally , marco beltrami's music cues the suspense too blatantly-do you recall the tense chase at the college radio station in scream 2 ? it's mostly silent . 
sting notes are a whole lot more effective if they spring from nowhere ; here , they act as the crescendos of an incessantly nerve-jangling score . 
i look at scream 3 as coming from an alternative universe , the same place that birthed the godfather part iii and superman iii-woefully out of synch with its prequels , scream 3 is a nightmare instead of nightmarish , and will likely put the horror genre back in mothballs . 
the film unintentionally follows the unspoken rule of a trilogy to a t : ? part three must disappoint' . 
a backdrop of new year's eve in 1981 would seem to lend itself to a great party movie . 
the decor possibilities are endless - disco balls had yet to migrate into the dark corners of the attic , big hair was worth its weight in aquanet , and the louder the fashion , the better the look . 
but despite this setting , these details and a soundtrack that includes some 40-plus irresistible hits from the early days of the me decade , something is inherently wrong with " 200 cigarettes . " 
a better title for this nostalgic mess would be " 50 missed opportunities . " 
what is it that makes this retro-comedy such a downer ? 
it's certainly not the cast , which includes enough hot , young talent for several movies . 
there's courtney love , cementing her reputation as a serious actress ; christina ricci , hot off her shoulda-been-nominated turn in " the opposite of sex " ; paul rudd , who gets even more appealing with every role ; kate hudson , inheriting some fine acting genes from mom goldie hawn ; and affleck brothers ben and casey , two of the best things about " good will hunting . " 
perhaps the question is this : what drew these and other immensely talented actors to such a dreary project ? 
maybe it looked good on paper . 
 " 200 cigarettes " is composed of a series of vignettes , as various characters make their way through new york's festively decorated east village to a holiday bash thrown by a jittery bundle of nerves named monica ( martha plimpton , all dressed up in her best cyndi lauper ) . 
among the potential guests are likeable cad kevin ( rudd ) and his best friend lucy ( love ) , busy bickering over his recent break-up , and a clumsy but seemingly charming bartender ( ben affleck ) who opens his mouth only to spew forth bad pick-up lines . 
more subplots - _many_ more - dot the big picture , but those listed above are the only ones worth noting in a positive light . 
all the other story tangents are as frazzled as a cokehead trying to solve a rubick's cube . 
ricci and gaby hoffman grate as two ronkonkoma gals ( the kind that have trouble pronouncing hard consonants ) out to have a high time in the big city . 
infamously acerbic comedienne janeane garofalo is wasted in what amounts to a several-scene cameo . 
hudson , as a pretty-in-pink klutz recently devirginized by a reprehensible ladies' man ( jay mohr ) , trips , pukes and gets smeared with dog poop . 
are we laughing yet ? 
the film boils down to a mixture of the good , the bad and the gaudy , with the latter two overtaking the former . 
game performances - especially by love , rudd and plimpton - are almost shot down by the bizarrely colorful parts and a constantly roving focus , here a combination that mostly sputters when it should crackle . 
too many sidetracks rate as uninteresting and have little payoff until a lengthy final montage where we find out many of the performers served as one night stands for each other . 
if this is " 200 cigarettes , " then get me 200 nicotine patches . 
the premise of the new james wong film , final destination , is that alex browning , the protagonist , prevents six of his friends from boarding a doomed airplane , thereby cheating fate . 
however , fate is not so easily bested , and alex's friends soon begin dying in unusual circumstances . 
essentially , this premise is a clever-way to make a slasher-flick without the slasher . 
unfortunately , this is practically the only clever thing about the film . 
as far as teen horror flicks go , final destination is better than many . 
there is enough shocking death , graphic gore , and requisite black humor to provide the essential " roller coaster " type thrill at the heart of the average horror flick . 
unfortunately , this film also suffers from the worst characteristics of this genre . 
the relationships between the main characters are tenuous and their motivations are meaningless except as excuse to set-up the next death . 
the scene where two of the characters break into a funeral home to view the body of their recently killed friend is suppose to be scary and dramatic but features some of the dumbest dialogue i have witnessed . 
if you are looking for a saturday night thriller to scare your date , this film might do the trick . 
other than that , wait until it goes into heavy-rotation on cable . 
there is a scene in patch adams in which patch is in the center of a courtroom , surrounded by people who are giving him a lively standing ovation because of his strong-worded attack on a group of stoic doctors . 
when i noticed that the audience with whom i saw this film was reacting the same way , i realized that i was going to have a hard time finding someone who agrees with me about the quality of the picture . 
you see , patch adams revolted me beyond all boundaries . 
i hated this movie for every second that i sat watching it , and i actively hate it now , days later , with the simpering , superficial , nauseatingly sentimental images forever plaguing my memories . 
i hate every element of the film , beginning with tom shadyac's shameless direction , and all the way up to the misguided and mishandled themes that the screenplay wants so desperately to convey . 
the badness of patch adams is stupefying . 
it's confounding . 
i can't believe a film can be this bad . 
and yet , it's based on a real man who probably has a good point to make . 
in the film , patch is played by the undefeatable and indefatigable robin williams , in a performance of such insulting pathos and sledgehammer sympathy that i wonder now if he is even human . 
in the beginning of the film , patch commits himself to a mental institution because he doesn't want to kill himself . 
while there , he notices that the doctors don't care about the patients , and that the best way to get through to the patients is to treat them like human beings . 
so , patch goes on a crusade to be a great doctor who actually talks to his patients . 
he goes to medical school , where he meets truman ( daniel london ) and convinces him that it's good to help people . 
he also meets carin fischer ( monica potters ) , the anti-male med student who just wants to go through the motions and be a successful doctor . 
naturally , the dean of the medical school ( bob gunton ) hates patch , and wants to thwart his plans , even though patch gets the highest scores on all of his exams . 
so patch decides that he's going to build a free clinic in the middle of nowhere to help people with any problem they may have . 
and that , my friends , is the synopsis for what is easily the most abhorrent picture of 1998 . 
on a superficial level , the film is not particularly bad : i wouldn't say the cinematography bothered me , and most of the performances seem to be exactly what shadyac was aiming for ( i actually liked potter's performance , even if she is wasted ) . 
but the film fails fundamentally in execution . 
every scene swells with grand , " emotional " music , played at maximum volume just to get us all to cry real hard . 
take , for instance , the first scene , which shows patch sitting on a bus . 
we don't know patch yet , but there's sad music , and it's supposed to make us really sad that he's sad . 
later on , patch makes a lot of progress : he helps a dying patient ( peter coyote ) to enjoy the last days of his life , and the music as patch is pushing the patient recklessly through the halls of the hospital is very lively . 
and when that patient finally dies ( spoiler alert ! ) , the music is very very sad . 
but the problem with all of this is that the music should not be the center of the emotions . 
real drama is character-based . 
you grow to like someone , and then something bad happens , and you feel it . 
we don't ever grow to know the dying patient ; he's simply a vehicle for patch's greatness . 
real drama doesn't seem forced , or present just to make the audience cry . 
that's why patch adams is not real drama . 
it goes for every cheap tear imaginable , wringing tired and overbearing sentimentality out of every scene . 
even scenes that have very little impact on the overall film are drowning in marc shaiman's sickening musical score . 
sentimentality like this is indeed bad . 
but it's not as bad as half-baked , simplistic themes . 
you see , patch is a really great student . 
he aces his tests without studying , and does it so effectively that people think he's cheating . 
but patch doesn't think that memorizing facts is the way to become a good doctor . 
 " why don't we see patients until the third year ? " he bursts out every three seconds . 
well , patch , that might have something to do with the fact that you need to learn something before you go treating patients . 
not everyone has the capability of memorizing facts with no effort . 
most of us have to study . 
and a doctor who really wants to help , but doesn't know a toe from a finger , probably won't be too successful in preventing death . 
oh wait , i almost forgot : the point of doctors is not just to " prevent death , " but to " improve the quality of life ! " 
yes ! 
that is true ! 
and you can not do that without studying . 
you can not do that without going to medical school . 
what patch never seemed to understand was the possibility that maybe , just maybe , it is a good idea to study first and talk to patients later . 
follow the rules ? 
bah ! 
who needs the rules ! 
only uptight doctors follow the rules . 
the real saviors are the ones running around the hospitals with big red spheres on their faces and sporting baggy yellow pants . 
and then there's the free clinic issue , which i find shockingly , frighteningly idealistic . 
a free clinic . 
in the middle of the forest . 
where patients can be taken to be helped . 
for free . 
how will patients be transported to the free clinic ? 
will it have an emergency room ? 
or is it just for mental patients ? 
and who , may i ask , will pay for it ? 
the film does give some token attempts to question patch's motives ( i think another character asks him how he's going to pay for it , in addition to a little bit of meaningless blather about hmos and medical insurance ) , but they certainly don't explore or challenge patch's ideas to any meaningful extent . 
reader , please understand this : i am not making any kind of judgment on the real patch adams . 
i know nothing about him . 
if his beliefs mirror those of this film character , then i might like to have an intelligent discussion with him about them . 
but regardless of what the real patch adams believes , the themes put forth in this film are simplistic and phony . 
and in the last scene , the big , obligatory courtroom scene that forced my lunch halfway up my esophagus , patch does a lot of shouting . 
actually , robin williams does a lot of shouting . 
he shouts a lot about helping people , and a lot of people cry because they are moved by his words . 
i won't tell you that you can't be moved by his words , because i , too , was moved by his words . 
i was moved in such a profoundly negative way that i was reminded of how cheap and phony a cinematic experience can be . 
patch adams is the cheapest of them all . 
i have a great idea for a movie , one that can't miss . 
see , i've got coolio to do a song for the soundtrack , and about fifty athletes and celebrities to do cameo appearances . 
it's about professional basketball , so i'll release it right around the nba finals to guarantee added publicity . 
as for what the movie is actually about . . . well , that will all sort itself out eventually . 
i figure it will be a comedy , so i'll throw a half-dozen writers at it and take the best of whatever they come up with . 
maybe we'll put a gender spin on it , see if we can get some women out to see it , too . 
eddie is one of those phenomenally lazy films that infuriates me more than any other kind . 
twister , as inane as the script might have been , at least required some creative technicians ; mission : impossible , overwrought plot and all , at least involved genuine effort . 
eddie just sits there , hawking up a formula story without any laughs , and makes every possible bad decision when a decision is required . 
whoopi goldberg plays eddie franklin , a new york limo driver and die-hard knicks fan who is suffering through a dismal season for her beloved team . 
coach john bailey ( dennis farina ) has lost control of his overpaid prima donnas , and the losses are beginning to mount . 
the dwindling attendance inspires new team owner wild bill burgess ( frank langella ) to try a publicity stunt in which a lucky fan will get to be an honorary coach of the team . 
the winner ( surprise , surprise ) is eddie , who becomes a fan favorite , and eventually the actual coach . 
the knicks continue to lose , but eddie has some sassy tricks up her sleeve to inspire her troops . 
incidentally , the knicks eventually start winning . 
please raise your hand if that comes as a shock , and i will invite you to my all-night marathon of the bad news bears , major league , angels in the outfield , the mighty ducks , the big green , cool runnings and little giants . 
awful teams in sports comedies make miraculous turnarounds ; it's what they do . 
those teams usually involve kids , for a very sound comedic reason : it's funnier when they screw up , and they're more sympathetic . 
those which _don't_ involve kids usually have actual actors in the lead roles , for another very sound comedic reason : they generally have developed some sort of comic timing . 
eddie was cast under the misguided premise that it's easier to make basketball players look like actors than it is to make actors look like basketball players . 
this finds nba players like greg ostertag , dwayne schintzius , rick fox and malik sealy delivering punch lines as though they were reading them for the first time off a bazooka wrapper ( though sacramento kings center olden polynice has a nice moment describing a black hole to fellow players ) . 
perhaps that all didn't matter to anyone because there are so few punch lines , and because the whole film is one big casting gimmick . 
steve rash directs the spiritless script as though waving a flag of surrender and screaming , " don't blame me , i just work here . " 
perhaps it was patently obvious to him that eddie isn't a movie -- it's a cameo appearance that trips over a plot every once in a while . 
among the notables who lend their faces to this travesty are donald trump , new york mayor rudolph giulianni , former new york mayor ed koch , david letterman , letterman regulars mujibur rahman and sirajul islam , espn broadcaster chris berman and knicks announcer marv albert , as well as dozens of nba players and several nba arenas . 
and those are the real jokes in eddie . 
nothing these individuals say or do is funny ; you are supposed to be laughing simply because you notice , " hey , it's donald trump ! " 
or " hey , it's mujibur and sirajul ! " 
it's difficult to decide whether eddie is so bad because it was so shamelessly lacking in imagination or because it can't even get the cliches in a cliche-ridden genre script right . 
the knicks coach who is eddie's antagonist early in the film reappears at the end , but he isn't given a chance to be the villain eddie desperately needs . 
neither is frank langella , and none of the athlete-actors have the ability to give whoopi goldberg anything to play off of . 
that leaves her to do her street-wise miss thang routine , but with no character , no sharp lines and no help . 
eddie isn't just a bad movie with a formulaic premise . 
it's a movie that makes you feel cheated and offended , because someone came up with a poster and a marketing plan to which they had to attach an actual movie , and you had the nerve to believe it was going to be a comedy . 
as any reasonable human being would , i must admit that occasionally i am befuddled by certain things . 
i am befuddled by fight club . 
now sometimes our favorite films are panned by critics and do not achieve critical success until much later , sometimes as much as ten or twenty years later . 
perhaps it is because these films are way ahead of their time . 
perhaps it is because they are so new and complex that only after years of allowing them to sink in do we truly appreciate and understand them . 
fight club is either garbage or brilliant , but , at least right now , i must lean toward the former . 
maybe i am subconsciously affected by word of mouth that has been slowly leaking throughout the media for weeks that this film is pure gold . 
but if it is , i sure don ? t see it . 
edward norton plays jack , a field examiner for a major automobile manufacturer . 
his insomnia , coupled with his compulsive desires to fill his world with ikea furniture to ? complete ? himself , make him a loser at the game of life . 
but when all of his worldly possessions are blown out his 15th story window , he seeks comfort in a stranger , tyler ( pitt ) whom he met on a flight home . 
once jack is sucked into tyler ? s world , he can ? t get out , literally . 
they begin fight club , an organization based on brutal and bloody fistfights that signify nothing other than to provide those that join a sense of belonging . 
as the fight club grows , things get out of control and take on cult status , beginning with one future soldier who proves his worth by standing still outside tyler ? s house for three days . 
i dare not even begin to bring up the last quarter of the film , since that contains the twist that ? explains ? the pointless journey . 
suffice it to say i was truly disappointed in fincher , who ? s previous two films , se7en and the game put him in a very slim category of truly brilliant young filmmakers of the next generation . 
this is not to imply by any means that he is no longer a genius or capable of bringing more masterpieces to the table . 
but with fight club , he has allowed his unique talent for extraordinary vision to be distorted by silly digital experiments and self-referencing film elements , such as talking to the audience about what they are seeing , telling them that the little blips in the right hand corner are signifiers that the projectionist is changing reels and that a slightly altered recurring line is good ? flashback humor ? . 
now , throughout the film ? s coarsely woven texture and over-extended plot lines , fight club is obviously trying to make various social comments about the state of the world today . 
advertisements , inter-office politics , corporations , you name it , it ? s addressed . 
 ( though the media are suspiciously absent from the institutions that are referenced . ) 
all of them play an important role . 
how so ? 
well , i can kinda just tell . 
i can ? t really put my finger on it . 
to say that starbucks and barnes & noble are taking over their respective markets and kicking out the small business owner is no big news . 
is that bad for the world ? 
probably . 
not much room for social commentary there . 
we all know that inter-office politics are just that . . . politics . 
so what was the point of all this ? 
the film seems desperate to make a point , or a number of points , but i couldn ? t figure out what they were . 
all i saw was a very bizarre social satire that was woven with strange film techniques , a bleak visual design and some fine acting . 
 ( pitt , carter , norton . . . all of them are good . 
even meatloaf is good . ) 
when you get to the end , you will most likely be filled with questions , many of which the filmmakers wanted you to ask of yourself . 
not them , because each of them would likely give you a different answer . 
fight club means what you want it to mean , i think fincher just gives you the stuff to think about . 
but it couldn ? t be more bizarre and unappealing . 
sure , it had shock value , but so did se7en and the game , and they were significantly stronger films . 
staring , george clooney , arnold schwarzenegger , chris o'donnell and uma thurman with alicia silverstone . 
well to start this off i'd just like to say a couple things . 
first is , i miss michael keaton , i miss tim burton and would much prefer to think that these last two batman films are all like a dallas dream sequence . 
not even from the first film was batman really the 'star' though he was damn close in the first couple anyway . 
in 'batman forever' and now in 'batman & robin' he's almost pushed to being a bit player . 
i can't really say if clooney ( who regardless was better than kilmer ) was a very good batman or not . 
he's given next to nothing to do at all , he might as well not have been there and it wouldn't have made much difference . 
now , joel schumacher has said that he refuses to bend to the masses that have hated his films and cheered for the return of buton that he wont make batman brooding and dark . 
fine , i mean granted 'batman returns' while being an awsome film was a bit to dark sometimes . 
yet his bright neon , campy style is just killing anything this series meant to me . 
i'm usually very easy on films . 
i loved 'con air' and other films some critics have slammed . 
granted that film really was paper thin , cliche ridden , except for one thing , it was fun . 
there is virtually no fun in this film at all . 
i couldn't have cared less . 
it'll thrill the little ones as theres no violence really , none everyone comes out fine in the end like those old tv shows where it ends with everyone laughing . 
schwarzenegger is awful , i mean really , really bad . . . 
and this is coming from a regular fan of his work . 
i love his movies most of the time and the basic reason is he never says much in any of them . 
he talks all to often in this movie . 
i would have much prefered to have seen patric stewart in the roll . 
i believe to truely like a film you have to care about at least someone in a film . 
i liked alfred but the reason behind it is a cheap shot . 
even though i have the utmost respect for richard dreyfuss as an actor , his presence in a motion picture does not guarantee any particular level of quality . 
like everyone else , dreyfuss has bills to pay , so he occasionally accepts big paychecks for prominent roles in bad movies . 
consequently , while his career highlights include jaws , close encounters of the third kind , stakeout , and tin men , his resume is dotted with titles like moon over parador , let it ride , and now krippendorf's tribe . 
let me start out by saying that krippendorf's tribe is occasionally funny ( although never riotously so ) , but that's about its only asset . 
the best word to describe this film is " asinine . " 
the target audience would appear to be recent nursery school graduates if not for the numerous sexual innuendoes , which are aimed at someone going through puberty . 
krippendorf's tribe tries to be a zany , off-the-wall comedy , but the film makers have forgotten three important rules . 
the first is that some minimal level of plot credibility has to exist . 
the second is that viewers should be able to identify with , or at least care about , a character or two . 
finally , and most importantly , more than 5% of the jokes have to work . 
once upon a time , james krippendorf ( dreyfuss ) was a respected professor of anthropology at little bounderby college . 
he and his wife obtained a grant to seek out a " lost tribe " somewhere in the wilds of new guinea , a goal which they never accomplished . 
shortly after their return from the failed trip , krippendorf's wife died and he was left with the herculean task of raising three children -- shelly ( natasha lyonne ) , mickey ( gregory smith ) , and edmund ( carl michael linder ) -- on his own . 
now , over a year later , the college wants to see the results of the money they gave krippendorf ( which he has spent not on research , but on things for his family ) , so they send a new member of their faculty , professor veronica micelli ( jenna elfman ) , to inform him that he has been scheduled to give a lecture on his findings . 
when he arrives at the college for the momentous event , rather than telling the truth and risking being sent to jail for misappropriating school funds , he fabricates a tale about a mythical lost tribe , the " shelmikedmu " . 
to provide video footage , he films his children dressed in native garb . 
soon , much to krippendorf's surprise , the shelmikedmu are a national phenomenon . 
but one disaffected professor ( lily tomlin ) is determined to prove that the tribe is a fraud . 
the only way krippendorf's tribe works is if you assume that all of the characters ( not to mention the viewers ) are dumber than dirt . 
unfortunately , it's impossible to like or sympathize with a bunch of putzes like this . 
director todd holland completely fails to develop any character into something more substantial than a device to implement various dubious gags . 
meanwhile , attempts at satirizing the shallowness of american culture ( i . e . , how easily the public can be fooled into jumping on the bandwagon of the latest trend ) come across as feeble and derivative . 
the acting in underwhelming . 
dreyfuss has definitely not given his " all " to the role of james krippendorf . 
alongside him , jenna elfman , the spunky co-star of tv's dharma and greg , radiates perkiness and little else . 
this quality , while fine for a 22-minute television program , quickly becomes irritating in the arena of a feature-length movie . 
no one in the supporting cast -- lily tomlin , david ogden stiers , natasha lyonne ( woody allen's daughter in everyone says i love you ) -- excels . 
i know that a movie's in trouble when it's half the length of titanic , but seems much longer . 
most of what comes on screen is generic sit-com level material -- the kind of slop that people will absorb while dozing off in their favorite easy chair in front of the television set . 
if there's any upside , it's that i don't see much box-office support developing for this lame , ill-marketed miscue . 
krippendorf's tribe will quickly become extinct . 
movies about teenagers and teenage culture rarely prove to be either interesting , entertaining or convincing , because of one fundamental reason : movies are made by adults and not teenagers . 
occasionally , however , films like say anything , dazed and confused and the breakfast club will break the mold and offer genuine insight into the lives of those bizarre creatures which surround us called " teenagers . " 
can't hardly wait , however , does not . 
instead , the writing/directing team of harry elfont and deborah kaplan manages to take every clich ? found in the teenage genre , strip it completely of perception , intelligence and wit - and turn it into one of the most nauseating cinematic experiences i have ever been subjected to . 
can't hardly wait follows a group of characters as they attend a house party on the night of their high school graduation . 
the main characters are such perfected stereotypes that no analysis needs to be provided to perfectly understand them : there's the average male protagonist preston ( ethan embry ) , prom queen and cheerleader amanda ( jennifer love-hewitt ) , football star mike ( peter facinelli ) , white rapper wannabe kenny ( seth green ) , computer geek william ( charlie korsmo ) , and brainy outsider denise ( lauren ambrose ) . 
i couldn't stand any of those characters . 
whether it was william getting drunk and signing along to heavy metal songs or kenny proclaiming " yo , i gotta have sex tonight ! " , 
all i could think of was how elfont and kaplan possibly managed to con columbia pictures out of ten million dollars to fund their film . 
apparently , can't hardly wait is supposed to be a comedy , but it tends to fail in this respect because of the fact that it's not funny . 
in all honesty , elfont and kaplan should be forced by their employers to attend remedial classes in humour . 
and when i say " forced " , i mean it . 
they should be strapped down to a chair and have their eyes wedged open in a similar fashion to alex in a clockwork orange . 
this is how desperately they need to be educated about the concept of humour . 
for instance , can't hardly wait features a foreign exchange student who is instructed to repeat absurd statements such as " i am a sex machine . " 
for some reason , elfont and kaplan believe that if this character repeats it enough , eventually it will be funny . 
if only elfont and kaplan could recognise the irony that they actually got paid for making this junk - now that's funny . 
way of the gun is brimming with surprises , some good , most bad . 
one of the good ones is ryan phillippe's surprisingly halfway decent performance . 
after the actor gained much attention by posing and preening through teen swill like i know what you did last summer , he hinted at a bit growth in last year's cruel intentions with his amusingly contemptuous john malkovich meets james spader performance , though his acting in that film faltered around the third act mark , precisely when the screenplay made his character grow a heart ( presumably to appeal to his training bra wearing fans ) and start bellyaching about how he'd fallen for his " target " . 
it was a dramatic shift that neither phillippe nor the film's director could negotiate . 
but he seems to be trying and that shouldn't be overlooked ( or probably over praised ) seeing as how , at this point , he really isn't required to do much but look pretty . 
here , phillippe has procured a five day growth of beard , his hair askew and his affect altered to sound something like james cagney in all his " look here , see " glory . 
it's tough to believe a pretty boy like phillippe as a hard ass , but his performance actually helps with the illusion . 
unlike ben affleck's puppy dog approach in reindeer games , phillippe is believable and not too bad at that . 
as for the plot , well , that's one of the bad surprises ; phillippe and the great benicio del torro play two moronic ( and not even remotely likeable ) criminals ( introduced to us in the parking lot of a rave where they stupidly pick a fight with about twenty people ) who hatch a scheme to kidnap a surrogate mother ( juliette lewis ) after overhearing that she's carrying the baby of painter ( scott wilson ) , a very well connected wealthy man . 
the kidnapping devolves into a laborious shoot out where much damage is done and many are killed . 
but the anti-heroes escape with the woman while an aging hit man ( james caan ) and two scheming bodyguards ( taye diggs and nicky katt ) remain in pursuit . 
directed by christopher mcquarrie , the screenwriter who won an oscar for his work on usual suspects , an overrated piece of crime noir in many circles ( this one included ) , way of the gun is a hodgepodge of crime thriller motifs that just oozes eye rolling familiarity . 
unlike phillipe , mcquarrie doesn't seem to be growing at all ; he fills his flick with a sprawling labyrinth of plot all snatched from movies i know i've seen before and worse , it feels like it . 
the film lacks even a fresh approach ( like what soderbergh did out of sight or the limey ) to its clich ? s , all of which are spewed before us in a picture that tries so desperately to be hip and gritty without bothering to notice how common it is . 
it features characters living by a code they seemed to have picked up in sam peckinpah 101 rather than any thing resembling life . 
even attempts at emotional weight feel strained like in preposterous scene where enemies james caan and benicio del torro stop in their tracks to have a cup of coffee and pontificate on life , philosophy , etc . i didn't like the bit much when it first appeared in heat , here , it's even more self consciously " dramatic " . 
usual suspects , which also featured a bunch of low lives that seemed to live by a code they learned from the movies , worked to some degree because of that astonishing twist ending . 
nowadays an astonishing twist per ending is de rigeur , never mind if it deems all that transpired before it completely inconsequential . 
thus , nearly every character in way comes with at least one dirty little secret ( most amateurishly projected before they appear ) and it too has an ironic little twist at the end ( nothing earth shattering , like in the usual suspects ) but i admit , i didn't see it coming , and i smiled . 
however most of the movie feels exactly like the interrogation scenes between palminteri and spacey in usual suspects : a lot of faux huffing and puffing with no rhythm or reason . 
or substance . 
it's just as overplotted as suspects , and often dull as any overplotted movie without interesting characters , a distinctive style , or a good script would be . 
even the good stuff , most of which involves james caan ( doing a fine job ) , feels odd and out of place in a movie that thinks lines like " karma is only justice with out the satisfaction " are clever . 
at one point caan laments " need is the ultimate monkey " a line so inexplicable he might as well have said " love is like hippo ass " . 
i've seen porno with better dialogue . 
and some with better plot lines too . 
but rarely has porn offered up such a talented cast ( i mean , can you even compare james caan to ron jeremy ) . 
caan slips into this role with seeming ease , he could do this kind of soft-spoken tough guy in a coma , but he manages to give his character depth and weariness . 
benicio del torro is always welcome , though here he plays it fairly straight ( rather than another oddball character creation like the ones the actor gave us in usual suspects and excess baggage ) , adopting a brad pitt-esque quizzical pout to go along with his heavy swaggering . 
speaking of pitt , his ex , juliette lewis , is a weak link , either shouting her lines with ear shattering shrillness , or waddling about like a silly goose . 
nicky katt was brilliant in a brief role in the limey , here his role is just as brief only he seems wasted ; he's only kept around for his cold presence . 
taye diggs has a similar function , cool as ever , but never a character , though the guy has one helluva death scene . 
for the most part way is incessantly talky with no reason to give a hippo's ass about any thing that transpires since its characters are never more than simplistic pawns . 
it's vaguely tarantino-ish , but in a bad truth and consequences nm way , with phillippe , in one scene , leaping into a stupid rant about " faggots " migrating to los angeles . 
you know the routine . 
the final shoot out is pure bargain basement john woo ( who himself seems to be doing bargain basement john woo ) with interchangeable bad guys lining up to be shot at . 
but those gun shots sure crack like thunder . 
just the other day i was watching an old dirty harry movie on cable and was stunned to hear the weak elephant grunt-like sound that emanated from harry's fetishized smith and wesson . 
oh how far we've come . 
when critics attack seemingly well-intentioned films like patch adams or more recently pay it forward as i am about to do , their opinions are often greeted with a backlash of angry e-mails , sometimes even mock death threats from those who ( i suppose ) like to be shamelessly manipulated by their entertainment . 
even politicians ( ! ) 
tend to dismiss film critics as heartless cynics for occasionally dumping on good-hearted films while praising " filth " like pulp fiction . 
these [fill in the derogatory term that you are comfortable with] tend to forget that a film critic's job is to review the movie , not the message , however sweet and endearing that message may be . 
thusly patch adams isn't a bad film because it's about a doctor who cares for his patients ; it's a bad film because it's a calculated piece of brazen audience exploitation . 
similarly while pay it forward may have its heart in the right place ( though i even doubt that , stay tuned , an explanation is forthcoming ) , it's still an unpleasantly maudlin mess . 
the picture is about an emotionally guarded 5th grade history teacher ( a somewhat similarly guarded kevin spacey ) , with a burn scared face and equally singed attitude , who gives his class the seemingly impossible assignment of doing one thing over the course of the semester that will change the world . 
12 year old trevor ( haley joel osmet ) , a disneyfied do gooder who takes care of his alcoholic mother ( helen hunt ) , comes up with the notion to pay it forward ; this entails a person doing one good deed ( call it an uber favor ) for three others , then telling them to do the same for three others and before long we're all living in a frank capra movie . 
meanwhile in a parallel story , a weasely reporter ( jay mohr ) tracks the " movement " which has apparently begun to grow . 
pay it forward has odd ideas about tone ; at certain points it hurls a smattering of unnecessary cynicism at us as if that would be the appropriate antidote to the unrelenting sappiness at its core . 
it's as if director mimi leder didn't have the confidence to make pay it forward the way she intended , and compromised out of fear that her film wasn't " gutsy " enough to earn the acclaim it has clearly been made for . 
so the picture adds grit ( a child molester propositions trevor , a homeless man returns to heroin after being " saved " , a character is knifed while doing a good deed , etc ) though it seems shallow , incorporated into the proceedings because the film itself isn't quite sure if it's ready to buy into its own utopian blather . 
pay it forward offers " crowd pleasing " elements for general audiences ; jay mohr's umpteenth variation on the waspy sleazeball , angie dickinson's earthy alcoholic bag woman , and the jive-talking " black hoodlum with a heart of gold " ( coming on the heals of the black , god-like inmate embodied by gabriel casseus in bedazzled , this may just be the beginnings of a brand new guilty white liberal clich ? . 
hurray for hollywood ) who actually calls the mohr character a " nigga " and says things like " can you feel me ? " 
leave it to pay it forward to happily include a little minstrel act for our further enjoyment . 
 ( maybe spike's flick wasn't so misguided after all ) . 
these scenes feel as if they belong in a dopey comedy with feel good aspirations rather than the irritatingly saccharine drama that you'll find yourself trapped in should you not heed my warnings . 
while the filmmakers have stressed in interviews that they actually hope this is a film that could make the world a better place , to me the final product has the oily feel of a cynical politician contemptuously reciting cookie fortune slogans to a hopeful audience . 
it's a picture that looks to be tailor made for academy consideration , with the main players ( all previous oscar winners or nominees ) given big emotional scenes that are practically variations on their most lauded turns . 
one scene in which a slightly de-glamed helen hunt ( de-glamed here means that not only is she a fashion victim [her look is somewhere between goth queen and trailer park mama] , hunt's hair is also natty and badly bleached ) verbally castigates spacey , feels right out of her as good as it gets oscar clip . 
spacey , of course , responds in his cultured monotone , that could be straight from his low key american beauty performance . 
maybe the actor should get an award for coming off the least self consciously irritating ; though how can he not , even when he's emoting spacey seems somehow shielded by a wry indifference . 
the usually talented helen hunt is the worst offender . 
in one atrocious touched by an angel moment hunt slaps osmet , immediately covering her mouth with the guilty hand in that very same stroke , and with said hand still on said mouth , she actually begins convulsing ( dry heaving really ) , then ( and i'm not making this up ) she scurries to the kitchen tearing the place apart in a frenzied search for alcohol . 
the scene is so hokey it could very nearly be construed as a parody of hackneyed tv movie blow-ups ; it's all very theatrical , especially hunt's performance , which feels like a pathetic plea to the academy for another oscar . 
pay it forward has the dubious distinction of being a film that could be used as an argument for why actors shouldn't get academy awards . 
the picture unknowingly affirms that oscars transform nuanced talent into overwrought expressionists . 
even haley joel osemt , the wunderkind who was nominated for an academy award for his unforced performance in sixth sense , seems more divisive about his expressions and inflections . 
his acting has become broader , less intimate ; it's as if we can make out the little munchkin's thoughts : " boy this outta floor em " . 
naturally osmet is made to play one of those only-in-the-movies children , a martyr-figure who cleans up after his mother , lectures her on the ills of drinking , and even fixes her up on a date with his intellectual teacher . 
never mind that the two couldn't be more dissimilar ; his mother is trailer trash dopey , and the teacher is one of those dennis miller-ey intellectuals who hides his insecurities behind a vast vocabulary . 
nevertheless this little nudnik goes out of his way to bring the pair together in a scene that recalls parent trap-ish cornball antics . 
but oh how we love bright , articulate , self-sacrificing children who pick adults up by their bootstraps and guide them through life . 
they're so adorable . 
of course the blame can't all be hoisted onto the actors ( though with the exception of the little kid , they probably should have known better ) , instead the brunt of it should be passed on to mimi leder , who directed one of the most thrilling episodes of er , then went on to make two awful genre films in a row . 
the first being the peacemaker , a witless post-cold war george clooney vehicle , and deep impact , one of the two films of 1998 to squander the premise of earth's possible demise by a crazed meteorite . 
the first flick was sunk by an over reliance on clich ? s , and a complete absence of any kind of emotional involvement , not aided by an ending which actually centered around the diffusing of a ticking time bomb complete with digital read out ( apparently present for an invisible audience ) . 
deep impact has more in common with pay it forward ; it's a movie that treats earth's impending destruction in awfully simplistic terms , completely ignoring the havoc that would so obviously take place if the world believed its planet would be a goner within days . 
the film was full of inspirational speeches where people really said nothing , though the sappy score swelled up to make it appear as if they were being profoundly touching . 
in pay it forward leder continues in this vein with her intermittent dollops of cynicism seeming almost like a rebuttal : " see my movie isn't as na ? ve as you might think " she seems to be saying . 
no , it's just horribly confused . 
where do i begin ? 
okay , how about with this : starship troopers is one of the worst movies to hit theaters in a long time . 
in fact , it might even be the worst * major * release film to come out in years . . . 
or even a decade . 
this is bad beyond belief . 
i would * not * suggest paying money to see this . 
there's a good chance you'll regret it . 
if you see it for free , you could still want to walk out . 
go right ahead . 
the movie starts off with cheesy 90210 scenes set in the future world of . . . buenos aires . 
here we meet the group of horrendously bad actors and actresses playing obnoxious , easy-to- * despise * -with-a-passion characters that have love triangles , love rectangles , and love hexagons screwing up their life . 
before long they all go off and join the military , primarily in the interest of having sex with the other youngsters that joined . 
they train . 
they strut around nude for no reason whatsoever . 
after an hour of making the audience scream in agony , they start fighting bugs . 
the big bugs look nice , even though their design is only " okay . " 
unfortunately , the fights are boring since we * want * all of the characters dead anyway . 
cue more agony . 
then some characters have sex . 
then some more die . 
 * * * who cares ? ? ? * * * 
cue more agony . 
the movie ends , the audience runs out to their cars , vomits over the pavement , and attempts to drive home . 
unfortunately , after that torture , they can't think straight , don't pay attention to the road , and many are in ugly car wrecks . 
you remember how batman & robin was bad ? 
well , batman & robin kicked this movie's sorry butt , people . 
starship troopers does not succeed as an action movie . 
it does not succeed as a drama . 
it does not succeed as a war movie . 
it does not succeed as a comedy . 
it does not succeed as a satire . 
it does not succeed as a parody . 
it succeeds as being horrible . 
terrible . 
gut-wrenchingly bad . 
i wanted to run away from that movie every minute . 
but i paid my money and i owed it to others to see if the movie got any better . 
so i stayed . 
it never got better . 
frequently , it did the impossible , and got * worse * . 
the movie as written , acted , directed , and basically just feels as a whole like it's about on the mental maturity level of a free willy 4 . the whole thing feels like a movie that only three-year-olds could enjoy . . . 
except for the ridiculously gratuitous blood and gore , and pointless nudity . 
it's written for little children , but children should definitely * not * go anywhere near it . 
of course , i recommend the same for everyone . 
don't go anywhere near it . 
verhoeven's got a streak going now . 
his last movie was showgirls . 
he seems to be trying to see how bad his movies can get before people finally stop coming . 
showgirls was a failure , but it appears that , though it'll be lucky to make near its budget , this movie will still do okay gross-wise . 
is it really * all * bad ? 
well , no . 
troopers has about four or five lines of dialouge/short humorous scenes that are actually funny , mostly from the " do you want to know more ? " 
commercials that pop up throughout the story , promoting the joys of the joining the troopers . 
so that adds up to about 30 seconds of entertainment and still about one hour , 59 minutes , and 30 seconds of miserable torture . 
i'm totally confused as to the way that some people are really enjoying this movie . 
but i do admit it . 
so , if you're willing to possibly put yourself through torture , go ahead and see it , and decide for yourself if you love it or hate it . 
i don't know how anyone or any * thing * could love this movie , but hey , to each his own . 
feel free to give it a shot . 
of course , in the interest of saving your souls , i don't recommend it . 
but guess what ? 
alien resurrection comes out november 26th , and , having already seen some of it and having read the script , i assure you that it will blow pretty much everyone away . 
though opinion on starship troopers is reasonably split , it'll be difficult to find someone that * won't * like alien resurrection when they've seen it . 
this is possibly the year's best intense action film , or at least * one * of the best . 
if you really want to see alien warfare that's played out intelligently and seriously , see alien resurrection . 
please , avoid this . 
adam sandler turns up the charm in his latest romantic comedy , the wedding singer . 
unfortunately , that also has the effect of softening his edge . 
he's nowhere near his peak of happy gilmore , not that it was much of one . 
he's certainly not helped here by a rather frail plot . 
the year is 1985 , letting the whole film obsess with 80s nostalgia . 
adam sandler is nice guy robbie , the titular wedding singer , who entertains at the local reception hall by belting out his interpretations of classic 80s hits . 
robbie's life is thrown into turmoil when his fiancee , linda ( angela featherstone ) , leaves him at the altar . 
however , things are looking up when he meets julia ( drew barrymore ) , a waitress at the hall . 
she's the perfect woman , but for one small flaw : she's engaged to be married to a slick junk bond king , glenn ( matthew glave ) . 
so , most of the film deals with the slow realization by robbie that he and julia are in love , and his attempts to stop the wedding . 
as far as plots go , it's a pretty thin and tired one . 
to fill the gaps , the wedding singer delivers heaping spoonfuls of 1980s nostalgia . 
from boy george to michael jackson , from miami vice to dallas , from the first cds to the last rubik's cubes , this film revels in all the minutiae . 
and then there's the music . . . 
learning a lesson from the successful soundtracks to grosse pointe blank , and romy and michele's high school reunion , this film packs more 80s songs in the film than the running time will allow . 
as a result , most songs get maybe a lyric or a half , but you can almost see the bright gleam in the record executives' eyes : the wedding singer vols . 
2 , 3 , and 4 ! 
while the nonstop 80s riffs get incredibly tiring , at least they distract you from the plot . 
at least last year's my best friend's wedding stirred up the standard " keep your true love from marrying someone else " plot by making the rival a nice person . 
here , glenn is such a lowly rat of a man that you never see what julia saw in him . 
barrymore , on the other hand , is simply charming as julia . 
which leaves us with adam sandler . 
he's at his best in the film when his nice guy persona fades a little ( such as when he has a breakdown on stage during a wedding reception ) . 
when he's in full nice-guy mode , he's more pathetic than endearing . 
the film boasts several cameos ( most notably by steve buscemi and jon lovitz ) . 
but none of them work well at all . 
buscemi's role as a drunken best man simply fails to be humorous . 
lovitz , on the other hand , as a rival wedding singer , makes you long for his good old days on saturday night live , where he was actually funny . 
the only cameo which has some appeal is a guest appearance by a classic 80s rocker during the film's finale ( surprisingly , one of the only plot-related scenes which actually works . ) 
adam sandler still has some work to do before he can become a dependable leading man . 
while he attempts to change his image in the wedding singer , the end result is no net gain . 
arriving in a barrage of hype , the blair witch project is one of the biggest box office success of the year . 
however , like the golden child , although blair witch has made a lot of money , it's not very good . 
donahue , williams and leonard play themselves as three students who set out to make a documentary about the blair witch myth . 
the film is made up of the camcorder footage they recorded , which means grainy footage and woozy camera angles . 
although events start of normal , they get weird pretty quickly , while the threesome argue more and more as the journey goes on . 
although an interesting premise , the blair witch project amounts to nothing more than a missed opportunity . 
the biggest mistake the film makes is to let three mediocre actors the chance to improvise . 
most of the dialogue is ad-libbed , and still manages to sound like a poor b-movie . 
the 'script' eventually degenerates into shouting matches , with the f-word included a lot to sound like students . 
there are breaks in these arguments where some creepy events occur , but then it's back to the shouting and swearing , which gets very tiresome very quickly . 
if i wanted to see three people get lost in the woods , shout a lot and swear , i'd go on scout camp . 
but no , the audience is meant to get some entertainment factor out of this , but i'm not quite sure how . 
the supernatural parts of the film are actually interesting , especially if close attention is paid to the story developing first twenty minutes . 
with no music and no budget to work with , the film has to depend on natural , psychological scares , which are sometimes well delivered , sometimes not . 
i never really felt truly scared during any part of the film , although there is a small sense of fear underlying throughout the film . 
however , because the actors are so irritating , the scares are lost when it eventually reverts back to heather saying 'what the f * ck is that ? ' 
a lot , and mike giggling like a loony . 
there's also the niggling fact that these student filmmakers do some really stupid things . 
the main problem is the fact that even though these hapless bunch could be killed at any moment , and are hopelessly lost , heather still insists on filming it all . 
the film gives a half hearted reason why she should want to do this , but it isn't very convincing . 
also , the students have no idea how to survive in the woods , such as following a large river flowing through the woods to civilisation . 
there are also some parts where the 'amateur' camcorder footage is obviously staged , heather's apology being a major one . 
the blair witch project , in the end , just fails to deliver . 
i suppose if you've been lost camping before , the film may deliver some chills , but this is no use for the other 99% of the paying audience who haven't been lost in the woods . 
apart from the final minutes , the film is mind boggingly unscary , and the shouting matches get hideously dull . 
the spook scenes are short and far between , and any other horror movie could probably achieve the same amount of fear that these scenes provide . 
although a good idea , it's not executed well enough to be a fun , scary cinema experience . 
it's a worrying fact when the website ( http : //www . blairwitch . com 
 ) is better than the film . 
the u . s . army utilizes a number of books known as field manuals which stipulate the specific way in which almost every action imaginable must be done . 
one particular field manual is known as the fm 22-5 , which among other things , covers the practice of saluting . 
under the " saluting " section is a sub-section which covers how a salute is rendered by a military work detail in the presence of a superior officer . 
the salute is rendered by the highest-ranking individual present when the superior officer comes within six paces of the detail , and is dropped when the officer passes six paces from the detail . 
in any event , the salute is rendered only by the man ( or woman ) in charge , rather than by the whole group . 
almost at the very beginning of the general's daughter , we see a general's motorcade passing a work detail . 
everyone salutes . 
it looked impressive , but it just wasn't right . 
that little bit showed me that someone either didn't do the appropriate research , or made the conscious decision to go with style over substance for the scene . 
in fact , this would serve as a metaphor for the rest of the picture , as it seems director simon west tried so hard to craft a film with atmosphere and flash that he forgot a coherent story and good characterization are also crucial to a good movie . 
what results is a film that looks good , but like that one scene , just isn't right . 
the first fifteen minutes of the film is a good example . 
paul brenner ( john travolta ) is an agent for the army's criminal investigation division , undercover at a georgia army base to investigate an illegal arms sale . 
prior to the transaction , the buyer gets a whiff that brenner isn't the unscrupulous supply sergeant he's supposed to be , and later that night attempts to kill him by shooting up the houseboat on which brenner is living . 
so ensues a cat and mouse action sequence which ends like a certain scene in raiders of the lost ark ( we'll just say that it involves propellers ) . 
brenner then receives new orders when the commanding general's daughter , captain elisabeth campbell ( leslie stefanson ) , is found naked , bound , and dead on one of the base's training ranges . 
he is teamed with rape investigator sarah sunhill ( madeleine stowe ) to uncover the truth about the peculiarly gruesome murder . 
what i want to know is why the whole action scene with the arms buyer was even necessary . 
it gives no insight into brenner , other than the fact that he's a little cocky . 
does the arms subplot turn up later ? 
no , so why add this extra running time to the film ? 
the answer : it looked cool . 
or how about the " atmosphere " ? 
the beginning of the general's daughter presents us with imagery of the deep south - thick trees , dirt roads , sultry colors over water - all backed up with bayouesque music . 
nice immersion in the setting , but it soon doesn't matter , for when the film's plot shifts over to the murder investigation , so does the entire mood . 
no attention is paid to the location of the story , and the music is altered to fit a very generic thriller theme . 
did the filmmakers start out thinking they were making a different movie ? 
instead of creating a cohesive atmospheric theme for the entire film , we get the distraction of one of theme followed by another , just because the director thought he should show off some of the countryside . 
the above examples also serve to illustrate that inconsistency is another problem with this movie . 
as i've already mentioned , an entire section of the film doesn't jibe with the rest , and the characterization only adds to the difficulty . 
brenner , who comes across as a man with little respect for authority , suddenly snaps to in the presence of general campbell ( james cromwell ) and utters some of the corniest " yes , sir " s i've ever heard . 
he even delivers an emotion-charged monologue about why he will work so hard to catch the person who killed the general's daughter , even though he was totally flippant about the whole thing just a couple of minutes previous . 
sunhill , who initially comes across as a professional investigator , utilizes a couple of blatantly illegal methods to obtain information , and even revels in her ingenuity . 
both characters are protagonists , but it's hard to get behind them when their personalities are all over the place , and in some cases , simply unappealing . 
i could imagine that during filming , west would shoot a scene , then take the actors aside and tell them , " let's do it again , but this time , i want more . " 
i say this because although travolta and stowe are normally very good , in this film they overact in most of their scenes . 
an even worse offender is clarence williams iii as the general's aide , colonel fowler . 
i swear the guy says all of his lines from the position of attention . 
a far cry from his days as linc in " the mod squad " , i can't help but think he was acting from west's direction . 
a couple of side characters including a west point psychologist ( john beasly ) and a young female private ( ariyan a . johnson ) make their scenes nearly impossible to bear . 
the only two actors who seem to have escaped west's influence are james woods , who provides a good performance as colonel moore , elisabeth's mentor at the psychological operations unit , and timothy hutton as colonel kent of the military police . 
woods relishes the role of a man whose job is playing with people's minds , and does so without ever taking it over the top . 
hutton just kind of hangs around , but at least he wasn't overacting . 
i haven't read the nelson demille novel on which this movie was based , but i'll bet more than a few dollars that the story was better in book form . 
the movie version has got characters which come and go with little or nothing to do except fill up space , or provide bits of information which seem to neither mean anything in terms of advancing the story nor reveal any significance once the whole story is finished . 
every time we're presented with some new aspect to the case , west gives us more of that flash by playing it up like it's the most momentous discovery ever , but the information is not used by the investigators at all . 
instead , when conclusions are drawn , they are such tremendous leaps of faith that you wonder if successful investigations are not based on facts , but lucky guesses instead . 
the army should have saved time by bringing in brennan and sunhill , letting them play a game of twenty questions with the suspects , then letting them guess who the killer was . 
would've been over in a half hour . 
the film finishes with a sort of bookend , featuring the same style and southern scenery as the very beginning . 
literally during the closing credits , we get to see brennan get in his car and drive off , then we get to see sunhill get in her car and drive off . 
they both seem kind of happy . 
maybe they were driving away from simon west . 
i don't appreciate it when a thriller manipulates the viewer into thinking the plot is interesting , when in fact it's ludicrous . 
in the case of the general's daughter , the plot is more than capable of intriguing you to a certain point . 
but at this juncture in the story , the movie begins to fall apart like a crumbling cookie . 
this predictable summer thriller is only sporadically involving , and that is unfortunately not enough to compensate for all of it's detailed flaws . 
get past one moment early on where john travolta exercises his southern accent , and you're likely to survive this entire movie . 
travolta plays criminal investigations divisions officer paul brenner , who's working undercover at a military base when another situation arises : the apparent rape and murder of a young female officer ( leslie stefanson ) . 
it turns out that the victim is the daughter of general joe campbell ( james cromwell ) . 
let the investigation begin . 
with the assistance of fellow cid investigator sarah sunhill ( played rather on-the-sidelines by madeleine stowe ) , brenner uncovers what appears to be an intricate and bizarre homicide case . 
things begin to get marginally engrossing when we meet colonel moore ( james woods ) , a former commanding officer of the deceased who has a few secrets up his sleeve . 
woods submits another scene-stealing performance here as he oozes authority , surrounded by clouds of smoke emitted from his cigar . 
with echoes of his supporting role in true crime , in which he duked it out with clint eastwood in enjoyably profane verbal exchanges , he makes every moment believable . 
here though , the intense dialogue comes care of confrontations with travolta , as the two send mindful , knowing glares across the room . 
there are many scenes such as this in the general's daughter , in which the veteran cast performs splendidly under pressure , but the circumstances that tie these meetings together are difficult to absorb . 
director simon west ( con air ) , shows a watchful eye of delivering a stylish looking thriller , but he fails miserably when it comes to the intellectual part of it . 
the general's daughter is , more often than not , a predictable and unexciting mess . 
it does not help matters that the plot is virtually actionless , dragging it's heels all the way at a mind-numbing snails pace . 
a few brief action scenes , marvelously handled in the editing department , show that the movie could have delivered such a more proficient package . 
from a director who does such a great job of staging explosions and miraculous stunts , i suggest west should stick with mindless , rip-roaring action features and attempt to avoid future projects like this . 
still , the movie is certainly not without it's merits . 
the acting is very good from the majority of the experienced cast . 
the performances range from commanding ( travolta ) to electric ( woods ) to stiff-as-a-board ( cromwell , who doesn't show off his real talents here ) . 
madeleine stowe manages to hold her own for a while , but as the female lead in an action-thriller , she doesn't pull through sufficiently . 
one of the problems with the execution is that it's very predictable . 
>from minute one , i had few doubts about the identity of the killer in question . 
the script even unwillingly points him out for us , using familiar techniques to hide his guilt until the unmasking toward the end . 
in all fairness , we've seen many of the devices used in the general's daughter put to greater effect in other films . 
the secrets behind the girl's mysterious death are explained gradually , but by the resolution we have tunneled through so much malarkey that it feels unnecessary and surprisingly silly . 
the general's daughter is not a terrible movie , and it is involving enough to sustain a viewer's attention span for a certain period of time . 
but it just could have been so much better . 
at one point in this movie there is a staging of an opera that goes completely wrong . 
but one member of the crowd stands up and cheers , thinking the performance was planned , and applauding it for their efforts . 
that's " dirty work " in a nutshell . 
a very different kind of movie . 
this is not a movie that i can easily review . 
the critic in me analyzes the structure , plot , acting , characters . 
 . 
 . and 
tells me this movie is terrible . 
but the norm macdonald fan in me had me rolling on the floor laughing . 
this movie plays more like an hbo sketch comedy than a movie . 
it's a one note concept . 
mitch and sam need $50000 in order to bribe a doctor to give their father a heart transplant before other more needy patients . 
realizing they are very good at revenge plots , they open a revenge for hire business , eventually running afoul of a rich businessman played by christopher macdonald ( who after roles in " happy gilmore " and " veronica's closet " seems typcast in this role ) , who sends them to destroy a building that mitch learns is the home of his girlfriend's grandmother , thus leading them to plot against the rich businessman on the night of the grand opening of a new opera house . 
first the critic in me . 
the plot is the standard poor guy vs evil rich guy device , where the main character meets the girl of his dreams along the way . 
here's the catch . 
none of the characters are sympathetic . 
they're all selfish jerks who don't care who they hurt in their attempts to do whatever they want . 
the jokes are juvenile , crude , appealing to the worst elements in people . 
there's jokes about prostitutes , the homeless , beastiality , anal sex . 
there's even a subplot that's developed , it seems , only to make jokes about infidelity and incest . 
and i loved watching it . 
i was a huge fan of norm macdonald's sarcastic , to-the-point comedy on saturday night live , and this movie is an hour and a half of it . 
norm macdonald takes a joke , strips it to the core , and tells it like it is with a dry wit . 
like the scene were he and his friend are learning the ropes at a new construction job . 
the foreman goes over the basics , which mitch and sam don't understand . 
how do they get out of it ? 
by admiting they lied on their resumes , and don't know a thing about construction ! 
and surprise , they get fired . 
the characters are incredibly mean-spirited . 
there's a father who's loud and obnoxious , a gambling addicted doctor played by chevy chase who tells sam of his father's condition by saying " if i were a gambling man i'd put a lot of money on death . " 
the businessman cole who always has his dog spunky , and does who knows what with it . 
and then there's mitch and sam , who , thinking they can get $50000 by destroying a building , ponder how their actions would ruin the lives of the residents . 
 " too bad we have to do it , " mitch says . 
here's a movie where every joke that is executed as it is set up , where you see every punchline coming , where every spot profanity could be used and then is used . 
at least the film is honest , and makes no mistake that it is anything more than idiotic . 
but at least it isn't dull , and it isn't predictable . 
and that's the way it should be . 
it's sketch comedy , and if you're a fan of norm macdonald , you'll love it . 
the jokes are crude , the characters are mean to the core , the attitude of the movie is that it just doesn't care . 
if you don't like norm macdonald , or stupid movies , then you probably won't like this one . 
the jokes are crude , the characters are mean to the core , the attitude of the movie is that it just doesn't care . 
so before seeing this one , tune your mindset , and prepare for a slew of norm macdonald humor , gay animal sex , prison rape jokes , uncaring characters , and one last performance from chris farley . 
the critic in me says ( * ) but i give it an 8 ( * * * ) . 
i just couldn't stop laughing . 
the new austin powers film continues a movie tradition begun in the eighties . 
produce something , anything , that will get the high school and junior high kids in the theater because they buy more soda and popcorn than senior citizens . 
the usual hallmarks of this filmmaking tradition are all here . 
gross humor , sex jokes , silly sight gags , more sex jokes . 
and the film is a strong contender in the current race to be cruder , grosser and more outrageous than that last film . 
what the film is not , however , is funny . 
the plot centers around the return of dr . evil , who goes back in time to steal austin powers' mojo ( a liquid with red stuff in it extracted from austin's pelvis ) which gives austin his sexual prowess and the charisma to defeat his enemies . 
austin must go after him , and returns to the swinging sixties where free love and sexy secret agents had their heyday . 
i almost avoided this film because i did not like the original . 
but the films premise sounded like an excellent comic vehicle and the film received many good reviews . 
i wish i had stuck to my first impression . 
myers is trying to be the jerry lewis of this generation . 
and he has the talent to do it , at least as an actor . 
but the material he is working with here , much of it his own , falls short of anything resembling comic genius . 
this movie tries to carry the day with sight gags about drinking distilled feces , a five-hundred-pound fat man's butt crack , and a barrage of sex jokes aimed at the level of the average 15 year old . 
after some of these scenes , one has to wonder how gross the next generation of films will have to go to get an audiences attention . 
the direction also helps the film achieve a new low point in cinematic humor . 
for the most part , i felt as if i was watching a saturday morning chalderns live action tv show . 
there is no sense of comic timing or subtlety . 
the director just throws the material at us , giving us nothing except the hope that anyone with a camera could be a film director . 
i am sure the film will have appeal to many of the under 22 crowd , at least the one's who have yet to discover literacy . 
certainly the movie is directed towards the generation that prefers everything described as 'in your face , kick you in the teeth , take no prisoners , ( action-verb +blah blah blah ) . ' 
if you see the film and you find you're not laughing , there is nothing wrong with you . 
it just means you grew up since seventh grade . 
to sum the entire film " 54 " up in one sentence , it would be : watch a vh1 documentary instead . 
 " 54 " , seems like someone brought william faulkner into 1978 , brought him into studio 54 , got him really drunk , told him to write about it , and then dumbed that down to be released to the public . 
a sloppy version of almost stream of conciousness spirals down into an oblivion of the illusion of sex , drugs , and disco . 
the narrator , shane o'shae ( ryan phillippe ) , works as a grease monkey in new jersey who , of course , on a whim decides to go into new york and try to get into studio " 54 " . 
phillippe gives a passable performance which could have been made by any young , attractive actor with a six pack stomach . 
he is let in by steve rubbell ( mike myers ) , the infamous co-owner of studio 54 , because he is attractive . 
he eventually becomes a bus boy and then a bartender . 
 . 
 . 
you expected more , didn't you . 
there isn't . 
the film builds up from nothing and becomes nothing as it's climax ( isn't that an apt word for studio 54 ) lands with a thud . 
the glitz of the club and perpetually semi-clothed patrons are used in an to attempt to show the it's glamour . 
for much of its target audience , college age to early thirties , it attempts to show celebrities mixing with " normal people . " 
this even fails since the only two celebs truly introduced are andy warhol and truman capote . 
you can be sure that half of the audience hasn't heard of them , another quarter only know their names , and the other quarter knew they were there already . 
the humor , if you can call it that , is built on an eighty year old woman getting high and 70s references like john travolta and olivia newton john making us laugh at how stupid we were back then 
the best performance in the film is given by mike myers as the perpetually high , sexually ambivlaent , very new york steve rubell . 
he seems to play rubell better than rubell would if he was still alive . 
he looks like rubell and sounds just like him while giving a subdued , almost nostalgic performance , when needed . 
it reminds you of his saturday night live character linda richmond on " coffee talk " sans dress and wig . 
the supporting cast of salma hayek , breckin meyer , and neve cambell are their only there to give added subplots which are introduced but lead absolutely nowhere . 
the romance between phillippe and cambell , as a soap opera star , is completely implausable . 
the two share about half as much screen time as there are shots of the eighty year old hooked on amphetimenes . 
hayek's wanna-be singer seems extremely forced and her husband , greg ( meyer ) stands in as shane o'shae's surrogate best friend . 
the subplots seemed forced and seem like they have been added just to make sure the film was over an hour and a half long . 
overall , " 54 " tried to give a view of the brashness of the place where crack flowed like heroin which flowed like wine . 
the film never leads to anything , has no obserable point , and covers up a lack of real plot with a veil of beautiful people . 
in truth , that reminded me of the eighies . 
you know , i never really wondered what the tarzan films would have been like had tarzan been an old man . 
while watching instinct , i couldn't help but acknowledge the way the film carelessly rehashes the well-explored themes of those earlier movies . 
even beside the tarzan comparison , instinct just isn't a very good film . 
it's painfully idealistic , manipulative , and silly . 
i didn't hate it -- it's simply impossible for me to hate any film starring anthony hopkins ; furthermore , most of the acting is quite good . 
but i can recognize instinct for what it is beyond my subjective admiration for the actors involved . 
i can also recognize reasons for wanting to make instinct , and it's pretty clear that this could have been a good film with a massive script overhaul and a director less interested in imitating movies like patch adams . 
things start off in the predictable way , as director jon turtletaub introduces us to our hero , theo caulder ( cuba gooding , jr . ) , an ambitious , young psychiatrist under the supervision of an experienced , old psychiatrist ( donald sutherland ) . 
caulder soon finds himself involved in the case of his life , the one he thinks will make him famous . 
the subject is ethan powell ( hopkins ) , an anthropologist who has been living among gorillas in africa for the past two years . 
powell has been charged with the brutal murders of several men in africa , and it's now caulder's job to find out of he's mentally competent enough to stand trial . 
through a series of short sessions , caulder tries to put together the complex psyche of powell . 
even though it really is an old man version of tarzan , much of this central idea is rather interesting . 
as i said , hopkins is captivating for every second he's on screen ; he has a way of convincing us that he's not acting , that he's actually a man who has just spent two years of his life living with a family of wild gorillas . 
the character himself isn't very interesting -- he's just an anthropologist who really likes gorillas -- but hopkins makes him interesting with subtleties both in speech and action . 
gooding jr . does strong work opposite hopkins , playing caulder as an intelligent and flawed individual . 
the screenplay , written by gerald di pego and " suggested by " a novel by daniel quinn , gives us no background information on caulder , but that seems to be the point ( he has no time for friends because he's obsessed with his work ) . 
nonetheless , these two actors are essentially the entire list of things that are good about instinct . 
unfortunately , filmmaking this inept can mangle the effect of even the best acting . 
turtletaub and di pego are both guilty of instinct's artistic failure , for they work together to make the dumbest , most cliche-ridden environment in which their characters are to live , and they do so by means of brainless subplots . 
first , we have the prison warden subplot . 
the prison warden is evil and wants to stop caulder's progress at any cost ; if this means taking caulder off the powell case , then that's fine . 
there's also the prison guard subplot . 
the prison guard is played by john ashton ; the prison guard seems to enjoy mercilessly beating upon the psychotics under his supervision , and he's instrumental in helping the story along to its obvious conclusion . 
then there's the daughter subplot , in which maura tierney ( playing the daughter ) must look very upset a lot of the time ; after all , she is the daughter of a deranged man . 
if some of this stuff sounds familiar , that's because they're all devices that have been used and reused in countless other films . 
the evil doctor in patch adams is not unlike the evil warden here . 
the offensive caricatures of mental patients lack the depth that the similar portrayals in one flew over the cuckoo's nest had . 
ashton's evil prison guard pales in comparison to clancy brown's in the shawshank redemption . 
hopkins' performance will undoubtedly remind audiences of his turn in the silence of the lambs . 
and then there's the whole tarzan thing , which is more than a little bit obvious through the entire film . 
perhaps what irritates me most about instinct is the half-hearted attempt at philosophical depth . 
the message powell brings back from the wild is not a subtle one : he thinks that humans are " takers , " that they expand and kill and that we should all just live like gorillas . 
i can sympathize with that , but only when it's in a compelling film . 
this is the kind of stupid movie -- just like patch adams -- in which a big group of characters ( psychotic inmates , in this case ) rise against the evil forces oppressing them by tearing up playing cards . 
what does any of this have to do with a man who has just spent two years of his life with gorillas ? 
if all the subplots of instinct had been left on the cutting room floor , we would have had a thirty-minute movie far superior to the two-hour one that i watched today . 
if the central idea had been developed beyond the old man tarzan premise , then we would really have had something interesting -- a movie that doesn't rely on the strength of its actors . 
in the finale of disney's " mighty joe young , " a 15-foot tall , 2000-pound gorilla holds a frightened young boy in its clutches as it topples from a crippled ferris wheel and plummets to the ground . 
upon impact , rugged everyman and perennial do-gooder bill paxton rushes in , containing the emotional crowd with an earnest " move along now folks , there's nothing to see here . " 
ok , so those aren't exactly the words he uses , but it's probably one of the few clich ? s not uttered in this unnecessary remake of an unnecessary remake of that mother of all monster movies , " king kong . " 
1949's " mighty joe young " was an update of that classic creature feature , also based on merian c . cooper's original story ( 16 years after " 'kong " it appeared the world was ready for a new take on the beauty and the beast fable ) . 
now some 49 years later , at least according to disney's way of thinking , the world is ready for one more . 
not so . 
the only--and i mean only--reason to see the 1998 version is for the special effects . 
and these , unfortunately , run hot and cold . 
today's joe young is designed and produced by special-effects whiz rick baker , who has been wowing audiences with his state-of-the-art make-up effects since 1971's " schlock " ( which , incidentally , featured a baker-enhanced " gorilla " ) . 
joe is a combination of animatronic effects , computer graphics , and that old standard , a man in a monkey suit . 
while there are occasional flashes of brilliance--baker's had a lot of practice with simian effects , after all , including " gorillas in the mist , " " greystoke : the legend of tarzan , lord of the apes , " and the 1976 remake of " king kong " --there's also some surprising cheesiness . 
one of the film's most embarrassing moments is when paxton's band of african trackers first encounter and pursue the larger-than-life primate ( in a scene unashamedly ripped off from " the lost world : jurassic park " ) . 
paxton jubilantly extols the beast's majestic gait at the same exact moment as joe , and the computer effects driving him , stutter to a halt . 
also , if the film's producers had wanted us to focus our attentions on the titular ape they shouldn't have paraded female lead charlize theron ( " trial & error " ) around in a seemingly-endless wardrobe of spaghetti-strapped tops . 
even joe seems distracted at times . 
the film piles on the clich ? s like there's no tomorrow , including the predictable plot ( anthro-zoologists ship gigantic gorilla to l . a . where urban havoc is inevitably wrought ) , predictable villain ( a lithuanian i think i overheard someplace ) , predictable love story ( bill and charlize--surprise ! ) , and predictable denouement ( " 'twas box-office receipts that killed the beast " ) . 
kids raised on " men in black " ( non-monkey effects also by baker ) are going to find ron ( " tremors " ) underwood's outing a little lame by comparison . 
while certainly better than 1978's " king kong lives " ( itself a lousy sequel to a not particularly good remake ) , " mighty joe young " proves how the mighty keep falling . 
an attempt at florida film noir , palmetto fails at the most fundamental levels . 
it's slow moving , uninvolving , and plain just uninteresting . 
harry barber ( woody harrelson ) is an ex-newspaper man , just out of jail after being framed for a crime . 
his luck hasn't been the best , but things are looking up when a mysterious woman , rhea malroux ( elisabeth shue ) , approaches him with a proposition . 
she wants harry to help her and her stepdaughter , odette ( chloe sevigny ) , pull off a fake kidnapping scheme to get $500 , 000 out of her stingy , but rich , husband felix ( rolf hoppe ) . 
at first , all harry is expected to do is provide a threatening voice on the phone , and to collect the money ( of which he gets to keep 10% ) . 
but , as the deed is carried out , things are not what they seem , and harry gets caught in the ensuing storm . 
palmetto pulls out all the stops to achieve a film noir film , but the effect never quite comes together . 
it's got the sultry florida heat , seductive women , and even curvier plot twists , but the whole thing smells of paint-by-numbers . 
sure , the right ingredients are there , but the end result is much too artificial . 
a lot of the problems lie with the script , which , though providing some genuine surprises , is packed full of leaden dialogue and bland situations . 
even the plot twists don't seem to flow well with the rest of the story . 
some of them , for example , come from so far afield that they seemingly only make sense because the writer needed a twist ( for example : harry's spontaneous job offer , or the whole typewriter situation ) . 
the characters are mostly lifeless , played to type , but not much more . 
woody harrelson plays harry with such imbecilic thick-headedness that it's hard to even picture him as an ex-journalist . 
elisabeth shue vamps it up , but doesn't add anything special to the role . 
chloe sevigny gives a terrible performance , trying to be a sexy 17-year old , but she just leaves a bad taste in your mouth . 
some of the supporting cast ( notably gina gershon and michael rapaport ) give stronger , but , in the end , meaningless performances . 
and to top it off , the pacing of the film is much too slow . 
as the movie grinds to a halt , you're given too much time to wonder why you're wasting it watching palmetto . 
if you're in the mood for this type of movie , you'd be much better off going out and renting some classic film noir . 
this film is worth seeing for those who want to see what mick jagger looks like when sporting an abe lincoln beard . 
the rock and roller is asked to carry the film as the action antihero of australian legend . . . ned 
kelly , the so-called robin hood of the aussies . 
but he fails to be convincing , in my opinion he is better suited to play gene kelly than ned kelly . 
the film opens to a b/w prologue of ned kelly bravely going to his execution . 
then it goes to technicolor and ned is seen in what goes for flashback , coming home from jail after a 3-year sentence to see his mom and reacquaint himself with the large kelly family . 
this scene is set in 1871 . 
in the background we hear the booming voice of waylon jennings , as he sings shel silverstein's lyrics , which tells -- of ned's hatred for the british rule and hope for ireland to be a republic . 
ned says a debt must be paid . . . 
as he hears voices from his dead father , his class-divided country , and his conscience , all telling him to get revenge . 
so begins ned's romp through australia's outback , seeking justice for all the wrongs his people have suffered . 
he begins by stealing horses , after complaining about the unfair tax law on horses that stray , which favors the rich landowners . 
when he's only 20 he forms a gang , causing him to hide the rest of his life from the police , who put a price on his head of two thousand pounds . 
when ned's mother ( clarissa kaye ) is jailed on a false charge of abetting criminals and sentenced to 3-5 years , ned offers to surrender in exchange for his mother's freedom . 
when the authorities refuse , the kelly brothers go on a robbing rampage , burning mortgages of the poor found in postal vaults and murdering some soldiers . 
rampaging through the outback , they gather sympathy among the poor and lower classes , who don't trust the traps ( police ) . 
spoiler to follow in the next paragraph . 
in the climax , kelly and his gang plan to ambush a train with british police , but someone kelly trusted tips the police on the train and kelly is trapped in a saloon and captured . 
ned's brothers commit suicide rather than be taken alive . 
but kelly's gang escapes , as ned heroically has the police go after only him and his brothers , as they become decoys . 
this was a flat presentation , hardly touching an emotional button on what all the fuss was about over ned kelly's call for justice . 
jagger didn't have a prayer in succeeding in this dry script offered by ian jones and tony richardson . 
the story failed to focus on australia , seemingly a more british film than australian . 
under richardson's lackluster direction , all jagger seemed to do , was proclaim his innocence and vow revenge , which soon became a shrill cry . 
if you want to see a better film about ned kelly , catch " mad dog morgan " ( 76 ) , a much truer and more daring version , with dennis hopper giving a much better characterization of ned kelly's madness , something this film could only do in a ho-hum manner . 
i think we should , as responsible citizens , all get together and stop jim carrey from making another movie . 
he's changing the cinema as we know it--and for the worst . 
i would willingly rewatch batman and robin rather then again sit through this miserable collection of filmic moments--prologues , epilogues , etc . the premise : a lawyer can't lie for a day . 
ho , ho . 
normally a movie made from this premise would be terrible--mr . 
carrey suceeds in making it unwatchable . 
i laughed once--and i was laughing at the sight of everyone else laughing . 
grinding doesn't begin to describe . 
it pounds on your head so forcefully and so unstoppably that , if you are a normal person , you leave feeling sick . 
when it's not trying to be funny , it's trying to be melodramatic--but it's just annoying , stupid and sappy . 
at best . 
this movie is intended to make people laugh , yes , not to be voted best picture of all time by sight and sound . 
but , it fails on every possible level . 
it fails to be funny . 
it fails to be insightful . 
it fails to be suspensful . 
it fails to be fun . 
they should pay people to see it . 
it suceeds on one level--it makes me want to get down on the ground and start thanking orson welles , for having lived . 
if you go in with the intention of coming out alive , please make sure that you are overly fond of boob , fart , pimple and fat jokes--otherwise you will go insane . 
yes , literally insane . 
stark , raving mad . 
it is boring , stupid , melodramatic and in the end ugly . 
i reccemond it strongly . 
to ed wood . 
the best thing -- in fact , the only good thing -- i can say about dark city is that it made me want to go see l . a . confidential again . 
or go rent body heat , to see william hurt do some real noir . 
or even -- god help me -- palmetto . 
alex proyas's new movie screams atmosphere . 
i screamed , too , " get me out of this theater ! " 
new line cinema spent millions of dollars creating the expressionistic film noir visuals and paying the actors , and doesn't have any way to get it back . 
i paid $4 . 25 for a matinee screening and don't have any way to get my money back , either . 
you'll hear a lot from other critics about the look and feel of this movie . 
i will admit that the cinematographers and costume designers and set artists and cgi graphics geeks all worked hard to create a stunning , nightmarish future world where it's always a late night in 1948 , complete with rotary phones and automats and fedoras . 
i've got news for you fellows -- i don't care how hard you worked , or how visually stunning this movie looks -- you wasted your time and mine , working on a movie without a plot , without a clear sense of direction of where it wanted to go , without a soul or a reason to care . 
the movie starts out oh-so-promising . 
john murdoch ( rufus sewell ) is lying in a bathtub in the sort of seedy hotel that in real life , would have been boarded up long ago . 
there is a dead , mutilated prostitute in the other room -- a surprise , as he has lost his memory . 
the phone rings : it's a sinister-sounding man , claiming to be his doctor , telling him to flee for his life . 
all well and good , right ? 
wrong . 
apparently , someone decided that the audience was just a bit too dim to figure out the intricacies of the plot . 
 ( this is getting to be a popular assumption in hollywood . ) 
so , the actual beginning of the movie is not sewell running for his life , rather , it's a voice-over narration by the aforementioned doctor ( keifer sutherland ) explaining exactly what is going on and who is responsible . 
it's as though sam the piano player had told us that rick and ilsa had been getting it on in paris in the first three minutes of casablanca . 
no , wait , that's not fair to casablanca . 
it's more like watching a new plotline at the first of the show -- or if you want to know how i really feel , having an off-screen narrator explain that gilligan won't be getting off the island in this episode . 
>from here , the coherence of the plot goes down faster than ( insert monica lewinsky joke here ) . 
the characters just wander around the city aimlessly and bump into each other for no apparent reason , and that's what moves the plot . 
what we're left with is a string of unanswered questions that don't make any sense . 
we're given aliens with unlimited omnipotent powers , yet they forget to use them at critical moments and get themselves killed . 
we're given a hero who can " tune " into these same powers , yet he only uses them when it's convenient to the plot . 
we're given a whole long list of loose ends that go nowhere 
usually , critics will say that an actor playing an underwritten part " isn't given much to do . " 
in this movie , no one is given anything to do . 
sewell is given the impossible role of a man who doesn't remember anything , and plays it like . . . 
um . . . 
a man who doesn't remember anything . 
the aliens are tall , pasty-faced , and bald , and wear long black cloaks and fedoras to remind us that they're evil -- and there's a child alien as well , straight out of an anne rice novel . 
sutherland is saddled with a limp , a twitchy eye , and a breathy accent to remind us that he's in league with the aliens . 
to its credit , dark city boasts two impressive bits of casting . 
william hurt is perfectly cast as the world-weary inspector charged with catching the man who is murdering prostitutes all over the city . 
jennifer connelly , playing sewell's love interest , is given two all-too-brief moments on screen as a lounge singer -- and turns in the sexiest performace this side of jessica rabbit . 
but instead of the dogged policeman and the femme fatale given central treatment in the script ( the way they would be in any self-respecting noir movie ) they're almost tangiential to the plot , such as it is . 
the problem with dark city is this : it's a bad science fiction movie pretending to be film noir . 
the essence of film noir isn't , as proyas seems to beleive , breathy dialogue or snap-brim fedoras or tall , bald evil villains who would make peter lorre curl up in a corner . 
dark city has not one bit of intrigue , moral ambiguity , suspense , or anything else that keeps us coming back to the noir classics . 
dark city is like the intricately carved door that kate winslet floats on in titanic . 
it's an exceptionlly well-made and intricately designed piece of flotsam , sailing around and around the middle of the ocean , going nowhere . 
you always have to be careful with the first official studio release out of the gate each year . 
they're obviously films for which the studios have no great hopes ( having missed both the deadline for academy award eligibility and the big box-office holiday season ) . 
combine that with howie long's first starring action role , and you've got a doozy of a movie that , while not as bad as it could have been , isn't a very good film . 
howie stars as an ace smokejumper ( a firefighter who parachutes into forest fires unreachable from the ground ) . 
in the slightly contrived opening scenes , we witness his heroism in action , as he , and his mentor ( played by scott glenn ) attempt to rescue a small girl and her dog from an oncoming forest fire . 
william forsythe plays the bad guy , a mass murderer who has several million dollars tucked away to help fund his jailbreak . 
he ( and five convict cohorts ) manages to get selected for firefighting duty when a woodland blaze just happens to ignite nearby . 
his escape plan bets a lot on the laxity of the guards , but ( since there must be a movie ) luck is with him . 
soon the now-escaped convicts are masquerading as canadian firefighters . 
why canadian ? 
who knows , eh ? 
along the way they pick up a pretty birdwatcher ( suzy amis ) to be their hostage . 
enter howie long . 
he's called in to help fight the blaze , and when he spots the group of " ground pounders " , apparently lost , he parachutes in to help . 
when he discovers their true identity , he is the only thing standing between them and escape , and the only hope of help for the hostage . 
long's acting talents are above those of , say , steven seagal , but not by much . 
although his delivery is mostly flat and wooden , he's a likeable hero , and there are some hints here and there that he may get better . 
the script doesn't help him out any , however . 
all too often , it veers into the realm of the unintentionally funny . 
the dialogue is strictly b-movie material , and the plotting relies too heavily on coincidences to be believable . 
long's co-stars are a mixed bag . 
at least they're all comfortable in their respective roles . 
forsythe has the scenery-chewing villain down cold , down cold , and scott glenn is always enjoyable to watch , even when he doesn't seem to be stretching his talents ( as is definitely the case here ) . 
suzy amis plays peril pretty well , but isn't given much more to do . 
some of the nature and wildfire shots are interesting , but many are rather bland . 
you'd think that the director , dean semler , a former cinematographer , would at least produce a film with interesting visuals . 
that's not the case . 
there's a lack of originality to nearly all the sequences . . . we've 
seen this stuff before . 
it's not the most auspicious start to 1998 , but it could have been worse ( just think back to 1996's debut , bio-dome ) . 
however , after a month of oscar-caliber pictures , a movie like firestorm at least gives you some perspective on how good those movies really were . 
in fact , there's a good chance that some of them are still playing near you . . . 
synopsis : easily-angered , chainsmoking architect david encounters his homicidal first wife diedre five years after their divorce . 
diedre easily cons david's not-so-bright new wife molly into believing she's a child psychologist so that she can influence molly and david's quick-tempered son , michael . 
diedre , at the same time , murders a bunch of people . 
comments : the ex is a very bad movie . 
i haven't seen a turkey of this magnitude in quite a while . 
i kept vacillating , however , between giving the ex one star for its sheer awfulness and three stars for its campy humor ( ultimately , i decided to split the difference and give it two stars ) . 
as summarized briefly in the synopsis , this is yet another spurned-psycho-lover-gets-her-revenge type movie . 
i'm not sure how many films have been produced since fatal attraction which use this tired storyline , but it seems like 10 , 000 , 000 , 000 . 
the ex , however , though following many of the standard cliches of this thriller subgenre , differs slightly from the norm in that , at least , it doesn't take itself too seriously like so many other duds do ( malicious and stalked are two examples which come to mind ) . 
those involved in the movie realize they're in a turkey , apparently , and turn in hammy performances which compliment the ludicrous dialogue contained within the script . 
the ex's storyline , as i said , incorporates many cliches predominant in films of its nature ; however , the plot is so overwrought and unbelievable that , after a while , the viewer must accept that logic does not operate in the realm of the movie . 
diedre , david's first wife , kills and kills and kills , for example , without ever having to worry about police investigations and the like ( it's not as though she's bright enough not to leave fingerprints at the scene of the crime ) . 
david and his new wife molly have an incredibly difficult time understanding why michael , their son , has emotional problems , specifically his inability to control his anger . 
though david smokes like tomorrow will never come and blows up at people every other minute in the movie , the connection between him and his son is not made . 
molly is easily swayed by diedre into believing she's a child psychologist and allows the demented woman to spend time with her son . 
time and time again , things do not add up in this movie . 
if a viewer can't accept this fact , then he will definately not like the ex . 
if , on the other hand , he can appreciate the movie for its campiness , then he'll probably like it much better . 
i don't mean to necessarily suggest , however , that the ex is a memorable exercise in camp . 
even when viewed from an it's-so-bad-it's-good angle , this movie isn't all that successful . 
the ex does have its moments , though , almost all of which involve yancy butler ( the psychotic diedre ) and nick mancuso ( david ) . 
these two actors turn in decidedly hammy performances which , oftentimes , elicit chuckles from the audience . 
the truly awful lines written for them help this humor along . 
butler gets the larger portion of bad dialogue ; every time her character kills someone , she has a punchline that's unbelievably inane . 
when she murders a tenant of an apartment she wishes to use to spy on david , for example , diedre whacks the elderly lady with a crowbar and states " i'm so sorry , your lease is terminated . " 
or how about when diedre takes out her therapist in another ridiculous scene ? 
 ( diedre's therapist wishes to have her recommitted , so she decides to visit diedre , alone , in her new apartment -- never realizing , of course , that it's not her's . 
therapists typically are catatonically brain-dead in these movies ) . 
having successfully snuffed the woman out , diedre looks at the body and says : " what was it that you always said to me at the end of each session , dr . jones ? 
oh , that's right . 
'i'm sorry , but your time is up ! ' " 
this is what passes for humor in the film . 
the audience doesn't necessarily laugh but groan ( the type of groan that suggests the audience can't believe they're watching this crap -- although watching it they are ) . 
nick mancuso's chainsmoking , nervous-wreck character does not have the cheesy lines that butler's character delivers , but his ridiculously overdone performance provides for some better comic relief . 
in between drags off his cigarette , for instance , in one of the movie's best scenes , david tries to explain to his lawyer what a creep his ex-wife is . 
in exaggerated exasperation , he nearly shouts " the woman is a cuckoo-bird ! " 
 ( trust me , it is funny in context . ) 
and so , the movie continues until its painfully obvious conclusion . 
i won't reveal the ending specifically ( though anyone remotely familiar with thrillers of this type could probably guess the ending just from this film review ) , but i will say that the ex has one of the biggest fire hazards appearing recently in film . 
molly and david own a cabin that becomes engulfed by flames in approximately three seconds ! 
molly , at one point in the film , not-so-brilliantly observes , after discovering diedre has moved into an apartment across from her family's to spy upon them , that " she's crazy . " 
you'd be pretty crazy too if you'd rented this turkey . 
i'd avoid it unless it's on tv and you come across it . 
if you do , you may want to watch it , groan at the bad punchlines and stupid plot , and feel good that you didn't spend money renting it . 
the blues brothers was a wonderful film , a hilarious comedy packed with good music . 
it cried out for a sequel , but john belushi's untimely death seemed to eliminate the idea . 
however , eighteen years have passed , and the long dormant sequel has finally emerged . 
unfortunately , it's a sequel not worthy of the original . 
the film starts exactly eighteen years after the first one ended . 
elwood blues ( dan aykroyd ) is just getting out of jail , his brother jake having recently died . 
as in the first film , he first visits mother mary stigmata ( kathleen freeman ) and then sets about getting the band back together . 
john belushi's absence leaves a terrible hole in the film , and although three new characters are created to fill the void , it is still very noticeable . 
first , there's cabel ( joe morton ) the illegitimate son of elwood's stepfather ( played by cab calloway in the first movie ) . 
cabel is reluctant to join his destiny , and spends most of the movie as an illinois sheriff , chasing the blues brothers band . 
next , there's mighty mack ( john goodman ) , a bartender who becomes the new lead singer of the band . 
finally , there's buster ( j . 
evan bonifant ) , a ten year old orphan who tags along with elwood and eventually joins the band . 
the plotting of the film is hardly original . . . it 
seems to be almost a clone of the original . 
elwood has to go to reluctantly retrieve each member of the band , they then travel , while being pursued by the police , and perform at several odd stops until they finally reach the big concert finale . 
the first film had neo-nazis as the random element , this time around , the russian mafia and a militia group fill their role . 
in fact , the duplication of the plot is so ridiculously complete that certain scenes are practically identical to the original . 
remember the classic performance at country bob's ( where they like both types of music : country and western ) from the first movie ? 
well , this movie has a performance at a country fair , where the band is expected to play bluegrass music . 
there's the massive police car pileup , although this time the gag falls completely flat . 
there's even an exact replica of the conversion scene in the church of reverend cleophus ( james brown ) . 
there are plenty of recurring characters too . 
in addition to mother stigmata and reverend cleophus , aretha franklin reprises her role as mrs . murphy . 
frank oz , a prison guard in the first film , makes an appearance here as the prison warden . 
as the stars , the new blues brothers don't live up to their legacy . 
aykroyd is more loquacious , yet much flatter as elwood . 
john goodman barely has a character as mighty mack . 
joe morton has the deepest character , but not a terribly interesting one , as cab . 
and what's the deal with the orphan ? 
it plays like a desperate gimmick that doesn't mesh at all with the rest of the film . 
at least bonifant isn't as precocious as he could have been in the role . 
but the true star , and the only saving grace , of the film is the music . 
and the film is packed with it ( even during and after the ending credits ) . 
although there are no brilliant mergers of comedy and song as in the original's rawhide/stand by your man medley , the music is very much enjoyable . 
to top it off , the film is packed to the gills with cameo musician appearances . 
b . b . king , blues traveler , eric clapton , travis tritt , wilson pickett , erykah badu , bo diddley and steve winwood are just a sampling of the multitude of stars that make an appearance here and there . 
unfortunately , the music pauses here and there to allow in the familiar plot . 
if simply copying the original blues brothers wasn't bad enough , writers aykroyd and john landis dumb it down , removing any memorable characters , and replacing them with flashy , but unbelievable , magical gimmicks . 
it's a shame . 
buy the soundtrack and avoid the film . 
better yet , rewatch the original . . . you'll 
have a much better time . 
michael crichton has had a long career of writing novels , many of which are science fiction . 
the most profitable film adaptation of any novel was an adaptation of a michael crichton science fiction novel . 
so in the logic of the film industry a good way to make a profitable film would be to make a big-budget adaptation of another crichton science fiction novel . 
congo failed , and i am afraid that sphere is probably not going to fare a whole lot better . 
it a little better than just okay novel and it makes a film that is not even that good . 
the film is expensive , over one hundred million dollars ; is long , 133 minutes ; has a terrific cast , including dustin hoffman , samuel l . jackson , and sharon stone ; but has little that is really original and less that is exciting . 
several years ago dr . norman goodman ( played by dustin hoffman ) was asked to write up a set of procedures for the government to follow if an alien entity was actually encountered . 
the plan he wrote was only semi-serious , but did explicitly define a team of experts who should investigate the alien . 
now that team has been assembled by a mysterious team leader named barnes ( peter coyote ) to study a spacecraft almost a half mile in length that apparently dropped into the pacific ocean in the early 1700s . 
suddenly norman's less than serious procedure has become an action plan for dealing with a real alien spacecraft . 
included in the team to investigate are mathematician harry adams ( samuel l . jackson ) , biologist beth halperin ( sharon stone ) , and astrophysicist ted fielding ( liev schreiber ) . 
together they travel to the deep pacific spaceship to understand its secrets . 
one major secret is the meaning of the huge sphere of gold-toned liquid metal at the heart of this spaceship . 
what is disappointing about this film is that it does not have really effective performances . 
director barry levinson is at his best with good actors rather than good special effects . 
the problem here is he is making a big-budget science fiction film . 
it has some effects , but the most intriguing effect he shows only as an outline on a radar screen . 
the technique is to suggest rather than to show and let the actors and the viewer's imagination carry the film as robert wise did with the haunting . 
that could be a reasonable approach in a low-budget film . 
but that requires creating much more atmosphere than levinson can manage to muster . 
it requires the actors to give really compelling performances and simply put , they don't . 
hoffman's acting seems muted . 
jackson seems to laid back . 
we do not feel for these characters and do not get inside their heads . 
levinson paid big bucks for his actors and does not really get price performance . 
and why we have queen latifah as a minor functionary on the expedition is anybody's guess . a 
cast of unknowns could have delivered as much emotional impact at a fraction of the price . 
look how much more powerful a film like alien was with only moderate actors . 
most science fiction spectaculars these days have second-tier actors and first-tier special effects . 
levinson tries second-tier effects , and first-tier actors , but never makes that exchange pay off for the viewer . 
perhaps sci-fi spectaculars are just not an actor's medium . 
the result gets a 4 on the 0 to 10 scale and 0 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
american pie 2 is filled with laughs . 
but they are mostly cheap ones built primarily upon sexual degradation and adolescent humor more fit for a locker room than a movie theater . 
i'm no prude and i admit to laughing along with everyone else at the preview screening to this sequel to the 1999 hit comedy . 
but the laughs are built on discomfort and embarrassment , not on any intrinsic humor from within the story itself . 
what separates american pie 2 from its predecessor is heart . 
of the original , i noted it was " a warm , pleasant outing about the travails of growing up . " 
well , the quartet of chums - jim ( jason biggs ) , oz ( chris klein ) , kevin ( thomas ian nicholas ) and finch ( eddie kaye thomas ) - have grown up . 
at least they are a year older , but don't seem any wiser . 
fresh from their first year of college the quartet , along with the obnoxious stifler ( seann william scott ) , rent a summer house by the lake in order to attract girls in an attempt to score . 
as usual nothing goes right until the last reel . 
but what we are left with is five guys spending nearly two hours drooling over various young women . 
and american pie 2 is rather degrading to women . 
for the most part , they are not shown as individuals . 
they are nothing more than potential recipients of over-active , raging hormones . 
it is telling that the most normal couple , oz and heather ( mena suvari ) spend the bulk of the film trying to have phone sex - she's overseas on an exchange student program . 
despite having been to college , jim is still klutzy and awkward , unsure of himself around the opposite sex . 
most of the pratfalls and humiliations are heaped upon him , including a painful episode involving an instant glue-like substance . 
also uncomfortable to watch is a sequence involving three of the lads with two young women roommates , whom the boys suspect of being lesbians . 
it is offensive and plays upon outdated , adolescent stereotypes to generate laughs . 
the first film , despite some raunchy moments , had an innocent charm to it . 
the sequel is more cynical . 
it knows what its predominantly male audience members want and unabashedly gives it to them : the many mentions of finch's encounter with stifler's mom becomes a tiresome running gag throughout as does eugene levy's return as jim's well-meaning , trying-to-be-hip dad . 
the only performer who is actually given some new , fresh material is alyson hannigan as michelle , the band geek from the original . 
in the sequel , she imbues her character with vulnerability , wisdom and maturity . 
american pie 2 is a pre-sold commodity that will earn several million at the box office . 
it is a shame , though , that in its rush to rake in some bucks screenwriter adam herz , who also penned the original , could not have set his sights higher . 
american pie 2 is funny , but it's still a comedown as well as a letdown . 
well , what are you going to expect ? 
it's a movie about a big snake that eats people . 
that's what i should have been thinking when i viewed this film , because maybe then i would have enjoyed myself more . 
instead , i ended up wishing a giant snake would come along and eat me , too . 
anaconda is about a documentary film crew sailing down a south american river . 
led by anthropologists dr . steven cale ( eric stolz ) and terri flores ( jennifer lopez ) , the crew is attempting to locate a lost tribe of natives . 
along the way , they find poacher paul sarone ( jon voight ) , and become unwillingly embroiled in his quest to capture the elusive anaconda . 
to simply say that this is the world's largest snake wouldn't be doing it justice , since the anaconda in this movie is at least two feet wide . 
if this isn't a good reason to avoid picking up hitchhikers , i don't know what is . 
at the beginning of anaconda , we find that flores and cale have had some kind of relationship in the past , but that seems to be more or less over now . 
i expected that fact to play a key part somewhere down the line , but it ended up being a set-up for nothing . 
cale chokes on a deadly wasp ( don't ask me how that happens - i don't know ) and is put out of action , relegated to being the person whom the rest of the film crew must get back to civilization for medical help . 
this minimally helps to add a sense of urgency for the plot , since this goal now comes in direct conflict with sarone's plan to capture the snake . 
however , this is negated by the fact that cale seems to get better by himself about halfway through the film , and in any event still results in zero payoff from the relationship angle . 
most bad characters are either annoying or stupid . 
in this movie , they're both . 
since this description applies to all the characters except sarone , it's hard to find someone to root for . 
you're supposed to back the good guys , but you really end up cheering for sarone because he's smarter than everyone else . 
or maybe he's just not as dumb as everyone else . 
at times , i almost found myself rooting for the snake . 
there are no standout performances here . 
everyone seems to be reciting lines written for stock characters . 
even voight appears to be doing his best impression of christopher walken for some reason . 
no matter , as in most monster movies , the snake is supposed to be the real star anyway . 
in most of the scenes , the snake is computer generated , and the effects crew did a decent job of making it look real . 
however , the realism is thrown off by some pretty unrealistic occurrences . 
sometimes , for example , the snake just moves too fast . 
it catches a guy jumping off of a waterfall , for crying out loud . 
then there's another scene where the snake eats one of the characters , and we see the snake's skin drawn so tightly over its prey that we can see the victim's pained expression from within the snake's belly . 
absolutely ridiculous . 
a testimony to the film's bad direction is the inclusion of a scene early on the in the film , where we get to see just how dangerous the mighty anaconda is . 
in a scene totally unrelated to anything else , we are witness to the big snake winning a showdown with a panther . 
the anaconda wraps itself around the powerful feline as if it were a stuffed animal and squeezes it so hard , one of the panther's eyeballs pops out . 
eeeewwwww . 
above and beyond the sick factor , however , this scene surprised me because it actually showed the face of the snake before a quarter of the movie had even passed . 
in films like these , a sense of mystery surrounding the monster must be maintained . 
if the characters are reacting to something they fear more than see , we as an audience must experience that feeling along with them . 
to show us the monster early on is to let us in on something the characters don't know about , and therefore allow us to get used to the danger before the pivotal moment when man and beast have their climactic showdown . 
in a case like that , the showdown just ends up being a letdown . 
when i saw the snake for the first time , i decided to give the film the benefit of the doubt and assume that the snake i saw wasn't the real danger . 
this one was just a decoy , and there was actually a bigger snake waiting to make its appearance just when everyone thought they were safe . 
no such luck . 
okay , maybe anaconda is actually a decoy , and there's really a better movie waiting to make its debut . 
this film is extraordinarily horrendous and i'm not going to waste any more words on it . 
midway through " anaconda " , documentary filmmaker terri flores ( jennifer lopez ) turns to a co-worker and says " i thought this movie would be my first big break . 
instead , it's turned into a disaster . " 
truer words have never been spoken . 
 " anaconda " is a monster movie with a lousy monster . 
it's a suspense film that is utterly predictable . 
it's a mess the film does manage to drum up some scares , but only in the most elementary way , like a jack-in-the-box . 
as you turn the crank , you're totally aware that the damn clown is going to pop up , but somehow it's still mildly startling when it happens . 
the main difference between the giant snake in " anaconda " and the clown in a jack-in-the-box is that the clown is more realistic . 
 " anaconda " boasts some of the worst special effects to appear onscreen in years . 
animatronic shots of the snake look as phony as any of those cringe- inducing robots you've endured at disney world . 
but it's the computer animated scenes that truly expand the meaning of the word lame . 
in one shot , a character tries to flee from the monster by diving from a tree near a waterfall , but the giant snake springs out and loops around its hapless victim in mid air . 
the scene , if done well , would have been a jaw- dropper . 
here , the horribly bad digital effects look less convincing than a saturday morning cartoon . 
what's really amazing is that the filmmaker's were so proud of this dreadful shot that they actually included it in the promotional trailers for the movie . 
but enough about the phony snakes . 
now it's time to talk about the lousy story . 
heroic and very pale anthropologist eric stoltz leads a documentary film crew down a brazilian river in search of the shirishama indians , a legendary tribe that supposedly lives in the boondocks of the rain forest . 
stoltz tells his crew " pray that you didn't forget your bug spray . " 
apparently the female crew members bathed in the stuff , because they spend most of the film wearing skimpy tops and short shorts with no ill effect . 
along the way , the group rescues a whacked-out lapsed priest ( jon voight ) who claims to know how to find the shirishama . 
within minutes , they throw away all their plans and follow voight down a tributary into the land of creepiness . 
from that point on , the film is a hodgepodge of scenes and shots ripped off from " jaws " and " dead calm . " 
one of the oddest structural points of the film is the handling of eric stoltz . 
early in the story , his character gets knocked into a coma by a river insect and spends virtually the rest of the movie unconscious . 
so why did they hire an actor of the caliber of stoltz for what amounts to a cameo appearance ? 
also , why did stoltz , who generally selects his roles with great care , agree to appear in this crap ? 
ah , the mysteries of hollywood . 
the remaining crew members are basically just snake food waiting to happen . 
jonathan hyde is mildly diverting as a pompous englishman hired to narrate the documentary , but lopez and ice cube manage to rise above their cardboard characters . 
lopez , who starred in " selena , " is an enormously appealing performer , possessing a vibrancy that makes even the most trite lines seem credible . 
ice cube has a special charisma ; an ability to look like a macho adult and a frightened boy simultaneously . 
there's also a special twinkle in his eyes , as if he's gently mocking his own tough-guy posturing . 
but the movie really centers around the outrageously hammy performance of jon voight . 
obsessed with capturing one of the giant anacondas , voight plays the villain in thick accent , with a series of leers and hisses , spouting the kind of dialogue usually heard only in episodes of " jonny quest . " 
at one point , he looms over the crew and says " the anaconda is the perfect killing machine . 
it strikes , wraps around you , holds you tighter than your true love . 
and you get the privilege of hearing your bones break before the power of its embrace causes your veins to explode . 
 " that moment is so high-camp that it almost made the film tolerable . 
almost . 
fans of the horror genre may be tempted to check out " anaconda . " 
don't . 
there are a lots of horror films scheduled for release this summer , including another " alien " sequel . 
wait for them , rent " jaws " in the meantime , and don't throw away your money and time on drivel like this . 
if the 70's nostalgia didn't make you feel old , the 80's nostalgia is bound to . 
one of the latter set , " the wedding singer , " seems to be written by someone who did not experience the 1980's directly but only read about them in an article in parade magazine . 
the wacky fashions are here . 
 . 
 . 
and the music . 
 . 
 . 
and references aplenty to celebrities and signs of the times , but it all seems tediously-and too obviously-inserted for the didn't-we-dress-funny-back-then chuckle . 
the plot is standard romantic comedy with nothing original : robbie ( adam sandler ) is a wedding singer ; julia ( drew barrymore ) waits tables at weddings . 
both are engaged ; however , robbie's fiance ( angela featherstone ) dumps him at the altar , and julia's fiance ( matthew glave ) is a skirt-chasing speculator in junk bonds . 
robbie and julia go through the expected ups-and-downs as they realize they were meant to be together . 
i'll fess up-i've never found adam sandler funny . 
whatever his appeal is , i've missed it . 
 ( other comedians i don't get include pauly shore and pee wee herman-make your own judgments ) . 
the stupidity and artificiality of the whole project is summarized in a cameo by billy idol as himself . 
idol looks like hell , and the ravages of his lifestyle are barely concealed by thick makeup . 
he's mocked by a photo of his younger self on a rolling stone cover in the same scene . 
we're not supposed to notice that , and we're not supposed to notice how silly it is that billy idol suddenly appears to play fairy godmother to robbie . 
other cameos , by steve buscemi and jon lovitz , provide the only real laughs in the movie . 
lovitz is especially good , playing a rival wedding singer plotting with the mania of a bond villain to take advantage of robbie's post-break-up depression . 
synopsis : nice girl susanne has sex with her boyfriend daniel in his car , visits daniel's rich family during thanksgiving at their mansion in the middle of nowhere , and has sex with daniel again in the basement . 
susanne and daniel must then decide where to hide from evil art thieves who shoot everyone else in the mansion to steal paintings . 
brace yourself for one of those painfully obvious " surprise endings . " 
comments : thanksgiving . 
for most , it's a time to be with your loved ones and enjoy a good , home-cooked meal . 
for the makers of body count , however , thanksgiving is a time for multiple murders , violence , profanity , family dysfunction , and sex . 
boy , do i feel all the more better having sat through this crap . 
alyssa milano , the former child star of who's the boss ? , matures to made-for-video sludge like this movie . 
someone somewhere thought it'd be a great idea to pair her with rapper ice-t , who has since guest-starred in the made-for-the-sci-fi-channel series welcome to paradox . 
this isn't exactly a winning combination . 
outside of permanently ruining a holiday for me , what else may be said for this turkey ? 
well , it teaches us that beautiful , attractive women who look strikingly like alyssa milano fall in love with nerds who drive down long winding roads with their eyes closed and complain about being english teachers . 
it presents us with a heartwarming thanksgiving dinner attended by alcoholic , stuck-up rich white people waited on by black servants . 
it shows us that old guys , try not to laugh , sit around and talk about " the appeal of postmodernism " during their free time . 
and , it proves that you can have sex in your parents' basement when they have a dozen or so guests over , and no one will notice . 
before i go any further , if any young male reading this has hopes of seeing alyssa naked , forget it . 
the filmmakers cleverly shoot the simulated sex scenes in a manner that makes sure you don't see any of milano's attributes . 
they do , however , inexplicably throw in a scene where ice-t whistles " jingle bells " after killing people , for whatever that's worth . 
this film was originally titled below utopia . 
perhaps they should have renamed it hell . 
avoid this clunker . 
well lets see . . . i'm 
not quite sure how to review this film , based on its laughter factor . 
well yeah i can , it's not funny . 
ok so i laughed one time which warranted the 1/2 star , but other than that i sat in my seat wondering when this pos would be over , ( which at a running time of 107 minutes seemed like forever ! ) . 
in fact , this could be the un-funniest movie i've seen in a long time , if not the un-funniest . 
let me be the first to say " ready to rumble " is a huge disappointment . 
long time wrestling lovers ( david and scott ) dream of making it to the wcw , and watching jimmy king wrestle . 
that is their hero of course , whom is kicked out of the wcw . 
well here is where the plot thickens ( lol ) : the two wish to rescue the king , and put him back into the wcw but not that easily , because they are being tampered with by many people who are out to get them , while david's father wants him to become a police officer , and scott is a loser who has to with the help of david clean out johnny on the spots . 
what a plot eh ? 
 " ready to rumble " is one of those films that tries to be funny , but sadly fails miserably , everything in the film is imcomprehinsable , and even the trailer wasn't funny . 
the actors are dull , the script awful , and the plot which there isn't much of . . . . really 
annoying . 
i'm not quite sure how great actors like these , and very funny actors too , are given such a lame script , and directed in such a childish manner , that i wonder if hollywood is ever gonna make good films these days . 
this review isn't going to be very long because of the fact that there isn't much going for the film , if anything at all . 
only one big laugh is in the film , which isn't all that hilarious . 
i sat in my chair wondering with this 107 ( ! ! ! ! ! ) 
minute " comedy " was going to be over , and sadly it went on forever . 
i'm not sure if anything could have saved this film from being such a total waste , but believe me you , it is . 
reviewed by brandon herring 4/29/00 for more reviews please visit movie review central at http : //www . geocities . com/moviefan983/moviereviewcentral . html 
14 years ago , national lampoon introduced us to a new family - the griswolds . 
in 1983 , the griswolds embarked on a cross-country journey with the destination of wally world , a world-renowned theme park in california . 
we laughed our heads off as we shared the wild and crazy mishaps the family endured . 
two years later , we watched again as they went to europe , and four years after that , we shared christmas with them . 
now , eight more years have passed , and the laughs have done more than die . 
they've been cremated . 
vegas vacation brings back chevy chase as clark griswold , the good intentioned but ill-fated father of two . 
the premise is basically the same . 
clark has a wonderful idea to take his family on a bonding vacation , this time to las vegas . 
his wife ellen ( beverly d'angelo ) and teenage kids rusty and audrey ( always played by different actors - this time around , by ethan embry and marisol nichols , respectively ) join him and they soon find themselves in sin city where casinos will make the backdrop for ninety minutes of slapstick . 
of course a " vacation " movie wouldn't be complete without good ole eddie ( reprised by randy quaid ) , the misfit cousin , showing up at all the wrong times . 
there isn't too much of a plot here when it comes right down to it . 
it's really just a skit movie . 
there are a couple of ways to define a skit movie , which is not a real term as far as i know . 
the first would be a movie that basically has one running gag for two hours , therefore coming off like a two hour skit . 
the second would be a movie that seems comprised of about twenty shorter skits , each lasting about five minutes . 
vegas vacation comes off like the first . 
a good example of the latter would be last year's black sheep . 
the problem with this format is that it becomes old fast , and it doesn't really fit into a movie mold . 
in these cases , a " plot " , which is generally very thin , is used either as a shameless filler between scenes or to simply add convenience to the gags ( i . e . 
have a good vegas joke , make a vegas movie ) . 
such is the case with this movie's mini-plots . 
clark gets gambling fever and begins spending all of the griswold's money , ellen is on the verge of an affair with wayne newton ( ! ) , rusty has a fake id and is using it to his gambling advantage , and audrey is desperate for fun and winds up joining her cousin vickie ( shae d'lyn ) as an exotic dancer . 
the simple fact is : this movie isn't funny . 
at first , i did find myself chuckling heartily at a couple of little jokes , but when the movie got rolling , my interest suddenly stopped . 
chase plays clark griswold really well . 
he made the character and he is the character . 
d'angelo , to be quite honest , never was too impressive as ellen , and this movie doesn't show any signs of redemption . 
as for the two new griswold kids , the word " blah " comes to mind . 
the " vacation " series seems out to prove that anybody can play these two characters , the simple reason being that there is nothing to them . 
they're so generic , you'll expect the credits to read " girl #1 as audrey griswold " . 
vegas vacation differs from the first three in the series by more than just laugh factor . 
yes , it's true that vegas vacation isn't even close to being close to being as funny as the others , which were actually pretty fun in their own doofy ways , but there are a couple of other things that set this one negatively apart . 
first off , why did they leave off the national lampoon's heading on the title ? 
i couldn't find any reasons why , but maybe the fact is even national lampoon didn't want to be associated with such a lame film . 
that's saying a lot , especially when you look at what else the company has proudly presented : loaded weapon 1 , pcu , etc . if they expected this to be another hit , you would assume they'd be proud to tack on the notorious header , but for reasons only we can guess at , like the movie sucking , they didn't . 
there is another difference here that makes an obvious impact . 
the first three films in the " vacation " series were written by john hughes , a talented writer who is behind several popular films of the 80's including mr . 
mom , sixteen candles , the breakfast club , weird science , pretty in pink , ferris bueller's day off , planes , trains , and automobiles , and uncle buck . 
wowzers ! 
what a r ? sum ? ! 
looking at the names , you'd think this guy wrote everything that now stands as a movie icon for the 1980's . 
well that's not all . 
this guy also brought us 90's hits including the home alone series , the remake of 101 dalmatians , dennis the menace , and the current flubber . 
vegas vacation , however , didn't have john hughes behind it , and the loss is very obvious . 
this time around , the script is in the hands of elisa bell , whose only credits thus far include four made-for-tv movies . 
vegas vacation plays very much like one , and it would actually work much better as a made-for-tv sequel . 
if this sounds like a wild idea , it's not . 
revenge of the nerds third and fourth installments were both television movies , and they seemed like it . 
vegas vacation would fit in well on the fox network as a 2 : 00 a . m . 
sunday morning movie , but as a silver screen major motion picture , it's quite out of place . 
stephen kessler's jejune direction doesn't help things either . 
he only makes the film even more tv-movie-ish . 
each consecutive " vacation " movie has suffered a drop in directing power . 
we started the series off with harold ramis , who also directed caddyshack and groundhog day as well as co-writing ghostbusters . 
not too bad . 
then we had national lampoon's european vacation being directed by amy heckerling , who would go on to direct the hits look who's talking and clueless , as well as having already directed the infamous fast times at ridgemont high . 
lastly we had national lampoon's christmas vacation , directed by jeremiah s . chechik , who went on to direct the charming benny & joon . 
kessler , so far , has one title under his belt , the short film birch street gym , which received an oscar nomination in 1992 . 
granted that this was his first attempt at a feature length film , we can allow for some amateurish quality , but instead we get a movie straight from the text book - boring , bland , and deeply unoriginal . 
if you loved the " vacation " movies , and i know * some * of us did , there still isn't anything here worth seeing . 
if you loved them , don't ruin your good impressions of the series by indulging in this tragic example of cinema ala carte . 
if you never did like the series , why the need to confirm why ? 
plunkett & macleane marks the directing debut of jake scott , brother of ridley and tony . 
naturally , this got me worried . 
would jake's talent be inherited from ridley or tony ? 
if it was from ridley , than the movie would be a thoughtful suspensor with action thrown in . 
if it was from tony , it would be wham bang drivel . 
unfortunately , the latter is true for this worthless picture with little charm . 
carlyle and miller are the titular highwaymen , plunkett ( carlyle ) who is poor and unruly , and captain james macleane ( miller ) a clean cut gentleman . 
as the tagline clearly wants to make known , they rob the rich and nothing else . 
the film basically follows the rowdy hold ups the two stage , along with romantic interludes with lady rebecca ( tyler . ) 
hot on both their tails is mr chance ( ken stott ) who wants to see them both dead . 
plunkett & macleane is an annoying little film that serves little purpose . 
although undoubtedly slick and fast paced , there's very little merit contained in the film . 
carlyle and miller are fun enough as the foul mouthed pair , although their characters are criminally undeveloped . 
it appears that much of the money has been spent on the expensive looking sets and costumes , but not on the script . 
the five ( ! ) screenwriters ( three credited ) have produced an still born movie : there's very little development in the story . 
also , major events , such as mr . cash finding out who plunkett and macleane really are , are so rushed that they barely happened . 
the story is a bit of a mess , frankly . 
the performances aren't bad : carlyle and miller are typical lads , but liv tyler is a huge disappointment as the love interest . 
her irritable , stilted performance sticks out like a sore thumb , and i was quite unsure on what accent she was trying to put on . 
she looks nice , though . 
more interesting is alan cummings as the campy lord rochester , and although his character amounts to nothing more than a two dimensional comedy gay character , he hams it up well . 
ken stott is suitably evil as chance , but again he is nothing but a flat character . 
i didn't particularly care when the predictable death sequence arrived . 
although a disappointment in writing , and a minor success in acting , the film certainly look lavish , with good costumes , and wonderful sets . 
but production design alone can't save a movie , especially a movie as bad as this mess . 
jake scott would be more suited to directing a music video rather than this failed update of a period drama : the only update seems to be the fact that everyone must talk dirty , with 'f * ck this' and 'stand and f * cking deliver' splattered all over the place . 
the mtv editing and direction are flash enough , but in the end decidedly empty . 
plunkett & macleane is a massive disappointment . 
although somewhat enjoyable during parts , it's so light it could float off the screen if it wasn't just images on a reel . 
there's no thought , no development , no plot , just a series of manic edits and quirky camera angles to make this film appeal to gen-xers . 
although it's a great idea : update a period drama to the mtv generation : it's execution is awful , and would more likely bore than excite . 
sloppy and occasionally off puttingly tasteless , it's hard to recommend plunkett & macleane as a movie , but easy to recommend it as a overlong music video . 
give it a miss . 
capsule : silly and inane adaptation of gibson's short story , which is nowhere in sight . 
gibson's script only adds insult to injury . 
johnny mnemonic is an awesomely bad movie . 
i say " awesomely " because it's one thing to fail , but another thing entirely to fail so completely that even the chances for camp value are sabotaged . 
keanur reeves ( who is terrible ) stars as johnny , an " information courier " who can carry dozens of gigabytes of data in his head . 
he is given " one last job " ( whenever you are in a movie and you hear those words , run ) , which involves him shoving so much data into his cranium that it could be lethal . 
one of the neater touches that the movie brings in is that the only way he could make such an arrangement work was by ditching all of his childhood memories , but it's only followed up on in a token fashion . 
for his trouble , johnny gets chased by the yakuza , who seem to be the new bad guys in all the high-tech thrillers . 
what's funny is that if you watch gangster movies made * in * japan , there are whole gobs of details about genuine yakuza behavior and ethics , but of course there's no room in this movie for any of that . 
the yakuza are simply used to point guns , wave swords , flaunt tattoos , and grimace menacingly . 
 ( i could go on about how gangsters and criminals of many other ethnicities have gotten thoughtful examinations in the movies -- bound by honor , sugar hill and american me come to mind -- when asians remain perpetually stereotyped . 
but that's another essay . ) 
anyway , johnny runs and eventually winds up in newark . 
why newark ? 
maybe because it was cheaper to fake a future newark than a future new york , that's why . 
there , he meets an assortment of odd characters ( ice-t , dolph lundgren and henry rollins play a whole gallery of weirdos ) . 
the script deals with them with all the depth of pieces of furniture . 
it turns out ( what else ? ) that the data in johnny's head could save a lot of people , but of course johnny only wants it out of his head so it doesn't kill him . 
handled right , this could have been absorbing , but the script manages to mangle any chance of real sympathy for johnny at every opportunity . 
the details about the look and feel of the future are all phoned in from other , better movies -- blade runner and brazil come to mind . 
everything looks run-down and scummy , everyone dresses like they're punk rockers , and videophones are commonplace . 
snore . 
the only really interesting flourish is an extended depiction of the way the internet might work in the future ( complete with vr goggles and feedback gloves ) , but i kept thinking that it was more like what some relatively un-technical fellow would * think * it would look and behave like . 
a hacker of johnny's caliber would be blasting away with one command-line function after another , instead of wasting all this time twiddling with holograms , but of course that's not cinematic . 
whatever . 
what went wrong with this movie ? 
gibson wrote his own screenplay , which i guess is part of the problem : what works as a short story doesn't work in a movie . 
his ear for dialogue is terrible and the plot doesn't advance , it convulses . 
from the script on out , it was probably all downhill . 
renting the movie to make fun of it is sort of pointless ; there's no fun in kicking a wounded dog , is there ? 
i didn't hate the big hit , even though it is a stupefyingly terrible film . 
for the entirety of its running time , my eyes were attached to the screen , and i never once got bored . 
i found the film interesting because of its unique awfulness : this is such a confused disaster of a film that it's entertaining to watch it in the same way that it's entertaining to witness a thirty car pileup on a freeway spaghetti bowl . 
as a narrative , the big hit is pure garbage , never truly deciding its genre and constantly crossing all kinds of boundaries . 
it reminded me a lot of grosse pointe blank , which is a similar film that fails in a lot of the same ways . 
it's fine to mix genres , if the film makers know what they're doing . 
unfortunately , writer ben ramsey and director kirk wong don't seem to know how to handle the material , and the result is an action film that wants to be a comedy . 
the biggest problem with the amalgamation , in this case , is that the film is absurd and the comedy is out of place . 
but it sure is a fascinating failure . 
marky . 
 . 
 . 
er , mark wahlberg stars as melvin surley , a hitman . 
he's a good hitman , apparently , although his tactics seem a bit rambunctious ( he doesn't snipe or make clean kills--he just kicks the door down and shoots everything ) . 
he works with a few other hitmen--cisco ( lou diamond phillips ) , crunch ( bokeem woodbine ) , and vinnie ( antonio sabbato , jr . ) . 
they're a nice bunch of muscular guys , who stand around in the locker room after working out and compare masturbation to sex . 
they all work for a man named paris ( avery brooks ) , who is rich , powerful , and in constant need of four sloppy hitmen . 
it is very important that they never go beyond their boss and do work on their own ; this , of course , is where the plot comes in . 
they decide to kidnap a young japanese girl named keiko ( china chow ) , who has a rich father . 
when they do this , it turns out she is paris' . 
 . 
 . 
goddaughter ! 
it's very bad to have paris against you . 
the story is standard action film stuff . 
it's nothing new , and nothing particularly offensive ( but certainly not the slightest bit compelling ) . 
clearly the major selling point of the big hit is that it's a john woo-type of action film mixed in with some really hip comedy . 
it's true that a lot of the action sequences resemble recent films that go for the same idea ( such as face/off and the replacement killers , which are both far superior ) . 
there are stunts that are fun to watch : the opening sequence has melvin and two of his partners going in to kill some guy who has nothing to do with the story . 
they use night vision goggles and really powerful handguns . 
melvin is also very good at breakdancing , and uses this talent to avoid bullets and knives . 
like i said , it's not boring ; most disasters aren't . 
what makes it so bad is its genre-shifting madness . 
it seems to start out as a quirky-but-realistic action comedy , as melvin is seen transporting bags of human remains . 
then , as soon as they go to their first hit , it turns into a music video with bodies and bullets flying everywhere . 
then , somewhere in between , it turns back into comedy . 
keiko turns out to be a spunky little girl ; in one amusing scene , she is forced to read a letter out loud , indicating that she has been kidnapped , but the letter is littered with grammatical errors that skew the meaning of the words . 
and scenes like this work alone , but wong applies this goofy tone to scenes that should be more serious , or not be in the film at all . 
one of the most irritating moments has paris ordering cisco to come up to his office after he learns that keiko has been kidnapped ; when cisco gets there , paris and his men are standing around as if they knew cisco did it , but they let him out of there , telling him to find the perpetrator . 
the scene is played for laughs , but it isn't funny . 
and since it doesn't quite work as a comedy , it tries to fall back on the action , which also fails . 
this is a film where people fly fifteen feet backwards when shot with a handgun . 
cars land on tree branches and are supported by them . 
characters betray each other without a second thought . 
grenades are thrown in tight places . 
people jump out of tall buildings and survive . 
people outrun tumbling cars , and get out of the way of falling objects in small fractions of seconds . 
most frustrating of all , though , is the film's definition of a hit man : these guys are anything but subtle , quiet , and skilled individuals . 
they're more like socially depraved militia men ( melvin has an extensive collection of firearms in his garage , including missile launchers and hand-held machineguns ) . 
the characters each have one trait that distinguishes them from the rest ; this obviously doesn't make for deep or interesting people to watch . 
the acting is kind of fun , though--wahlberg is a good actor , and his innocuous presence in this film is charming in a silly sort of way . 
phillips certainly has fun with his psychotic character , while christina applegate , who plays melvin's fianc ? e , is convincingly air-headed . 
the big hit is an action film that unknowingly spoofs itself in trying to be funny . 
the funniest parts are supplied by the actors , and not by the numerous failed attempts at sight gags and one-liners . 
it's a true disaster , one that makes me believe that the goofy and unrealistic tone is completely unintentional . 
despite all this , though , i must reiterate the entertainment value here . 
you can cherish the awfulness of a film like this . 
if you embrace the big hit for the catastrophe that it is , you just might enjoy yourself . 
when the film features richard lynch in the role of chief villain , you know that you can expect nothing more than a b grade action movie . 
however , since this film also featured michael madsen , more than capable character actor , this time in the role of protagonist , the author of this review decided to give the film some benefit of the doubt . 
however , the very first scenes show clear b grade action credentials - madsen plays richard montana , tough policeman who raids a drug warehouse and make life miserable for local crime lord mario gio ( played by lynch ) . 
however , the raid was only partially successful , and montana is getting the rap . 
so , he begins his own private war against gio , trying to penetrate his organisation pretending to be corrupt . 
in the process , he meets gio's mistress gina zamora ( played by rosie vela ) and starts relationship with her too . 
although it doesn't stink like many of the similar films can , inside edge is mostly forgettable b grade action routine . 
nobody in this film actually puts much effort , including madsen or lynch , and this is especially case with uninspired screenwriter william tannen or director warren clarke . 
the only not so forgettable element in this film is presence of former supermodel rosie vela , who , apart from showing her more than impressive looks , shows some of the singing talent too . 
however , this isn't reason enough for viewers to spend hour and half watching a film that they would , in most likelihood , forget the next day . 
what are the warning signs of a * terrible * movie ? 
making it's debut at the dollar theater ? 
locally , chairman of the board did just that . 
having the annoying prop comic scott thompson ( better known as carrot top ) in the lead role ? 
chairman of the board , once again . 
how about an overly exhausted , paper thin plot approached with utter incompetence ? 
did somebody say chairman of the board ? 
that's right , carrot top's long dreaded major motion picture debut ( at least for a starring role ) is poking up in a handful of theaters across the country . 
chairman of the board stars the obnoxious , wannabe-zany king of redheaded standup comics as a lazy but creative , inventive but uneventful generation x- er named edison . 
living with a pair of surfer dudes in a small , rented house , edison bounces from job to job , always squandering away the money on his eccentric ( to say the least ) inventions and ignoring crucial responsibilities such as rent . 
this has the crabby landlady , ms . krubavitch ( estelle harris , best known as george constanza's mother on " seinfeld " ) , threatening an eviction if past due expenses aren't furnished post haste . 
as luck would have it , edison soon meets armand mcmillan ( jack warden ) , an old surfer dude who just so happens to be president of the multi-million dollar mcmillan industries . 
sharing a passion for more than just riding waves , armand is deeply impacted by the young inventor's notebook of dreams and ideas , and when the old man dies soon afterward , edison learns he is named a benefactor in armand's will . 
predictably , edison acquires the entire corporation and has to maintain productivity with absolutely no knowledge of the business world . 
predictably , there is a bitter nephew ( larry miller ) whose lesser inheritance fuels resentment that will lead to an elaborate sabotage plot . 
predictably , there is an attractive employee ( courtney thorne-smith ) whose initial repulsion will transform into love for our doofy protagonist . 
predictably , the man who knows nothing will fight against the odds and give the company it's most profitable and successful turnaround ever , all because he ran things by common sense and not greed . 
it's as though writers turi meyer , al septien , and alex zamm ( meyer and septien also wrote leprechaun 2 together ! ) 
pulled a plot out of a hat and worked carrot top into it . 
the jokes , the " surprises " , the developments - all of them run such a predictable path , it may only be carrot top's signature brazen red hairdo that sets this one apart from the myriad of similar films . 
a movie this bad speaks for itself . 
what's left to say when every element the movie possesses is a shameful retread of movies past ? 
the script is 100% recycled , the direction is hokey , and the acting is absolutely horrible . 
it is only thorne-smith who seems to take her job seriously , an accomplishment which surely deserves the medal of honor . 
she certainly went beyond the call of duty - she has to kiss carrot top ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ( barf bag , please ! ) 
movies like this give the audience nothing to do but ponder just how many synonyms for " bad " there really are . 
chairman of the board , without a doubt , deserves each and every one . 
the only way this won't end up on everybody's " bottom ten of the year " list , is if they were lucky enough never to have seen it . 
just because you can't miss his outlandish fiery mane , don't skimp on avoiding this abhorrent feature . 
you don't look at a ren ? magritte painting and search for a deeper meaning . 
you likewise don't look at one for 88 minutes straight . 
surrealist works are notable for their quirks , and they are fun , but looking at one quirk for an hour and a half is exhausting . 
that was my experience with i woke up early the day i died , a surrealistic , hyperactive comedy with no dialogue . 
it's not a silent movie ; there is lots of atmospheric music , occasional screams and weird sound effects , but nobody ever utters an audible word . 
though the film is distinctive , its unique style wore thin after about 20 minutes , and as it progressed , watching became a chore . 
the only reason the script ever got filmed is because it was written by the pseudo-legendary ed wood , the man behind such " classics " as plan 9 >from outer space and night of the ghouls . 
the joke , of course , is that his films are so bad , they're good ; so humorous in their inanity that they become hits . 
i woke up early the day i died , unfortunatly , is so bad that it's really bad . 
it stars billy zane ( titanic ) as a dangerous lunatic who overpowers a nurse , escapes from a mental hospital and proceeds to wonder around , stealing a car , clothes , and a load of money . 
our thief reaches a cemetery , where he witnesses a bizarre ritual . 
he falls asleep and finds himself , literally , in a hole , with his money gone . 
for whatever reason , he is bent on getting his hard-unearned cash back ( considering how easily he stole it the first time , why didn't he just go steal some more ? ) . 
he comes upon a list of the people who were at the mysterious ceremony and commences to seek out each of them and kill them if they don't have what he is looking for . 
i don't think either director aris iliopulos nor ed wood realized that this would have made a glorious 20 minute short . 
the subject and the style seem to have been made for it . 
unfortunately , twenty minutes worth of material is stretched out to more than four times that length , and the film simply overstays its already dubious welcome . 
it grabbed my attention in the beginning and gradually lost it as it went on , up to the point where halfway through i was already weary . 
it might seem odd that a film as furiously paced as this one can be so tedious ; but the surprise will wear off when you consider how repetitive it is . 
i woke up early the day i died is a comedy , i guess , though it could have fooled me . 
unlike most ed wood films , this one tries to be funny and fails , instead of the other way around . 
there's nothing inherently wrong with that , in fact , i think it would only make sense for someone who has been so " good " at making unintentional comedies to take a stab at a real one . 
whether wood actually went for comedy in his script we'll never know , but in either case , this is a failure . 
jonathan taylor thomas , christina ricci , summer phoenix , john ritter and others show up for short and pointless cameos . 
ricci , for example , plays a prostitute . 
her role consists of dancing around with zane in his motel room and then being thrown out . 
thomas is an astonished onlooker as a woman gets thrown off a cliff . 
was the home improvement teen heartthrob really that desperate for work ? 
zane , meanwhile , occupies himself by making weird faces at the camera when he is not called upon to run around wildly and beat people up . 
lack of dialogue makes him the ultimate caricature . 
the carnival side-show climax manages to demonstrate everything that is wrong with this no-budget production . 
it's desperately unfunny , but thinks it's the funniest thing since plan 9 ; , it's so spontaneously surrealistic it makes your head spin all while being confusing enough to make your head spin twice as fast in the other direction . 
i hope another film is made from an ed wood screenplay for i woke up early the day i died is not a fitting send-off . 
 ? 1999 eugene novikov &#137 ; 
well , as i check my score card for what i've done this holiday weekend , it reads good ideas : 0 and dumb ideas : 1 . 
i don't know what i was thinking when i decided to watch this movie . 
but in my defense , i can only say that it was someone else who urged me to see this with him . 
the film that i'm talking about is `a night at the roxbury , ' one of those offerings based on a saturday night live skit . 
wayne and garth , these two are not . 
rather , we meet doug and steve butabi ( the actors' names are not worth mentioning ) , two eternal partyers whose greatest ambitions in life seem to be finding a way to get into the hottest night club in the city , the roxbury . 
driving in their dad's bmw and donning metallic disco suits right out of miami vice , they try to bribe the bouncer to get into the club . 
`have you met my friend washington and his friend roosevelt , ' they confidently say as they pull out spare pocket change . 
their second greatest ambition seems to be oozing out as many silly pick-up lines as is humanly possible in order to start a conversation with a girl ( `let me see that label . 
just as i thought - made in heaven , ' says one of the brothers ) . 
and , like the losers that they are , they fail to do either for much of the film . 
however , as fate would have it , an accidental meeting with `what-ever-happened-to' richard grieco gives them the all-important ticket to get in . 
their sad lives take on a whole new direction . 
they make an important contact with the club owner who believes that these two brothers have uncanny insight into the club scene . 
and they are mistaken as rich swingers by two voluptuous young women . 
but their newfound popularity does not impress their father , who has other plans for them . 
the unfortunate thing about this film is that this is a one-joke movie , and the brothers are the joke . 
actually , there's about 10 mintues worth of tolerable stuff . 
alas , too long for tv and way too short for a feature-length film . 
thus , there just isn't enough material to sustain the 83-minute movie . 
there's no plot to be found and everything that these two do seem to culminate in an opportunity to execute their trademark move of snapping their heads in unison to the funky beat of haddaway's europop song , what is love . 
i was amazed that none of the two suffered from whiplash . 
to take up more film time , there is a subplot involving the daughter of the businessman next door who wants to marry doug . 
this creates not only friction between the brothers , but their unlikely pairing will also agitate audience members as well . 
she's educated and a forebearing witch . 
meanwhile , doug is a complete loser . 
how did these two ever get together ? 
i suppose that if i can ever figure out the answer to that question , i'll have figured out why i decided to go and see this movie . 
if you're looking for entertainment , you won't find it at the roxbury . 
terrence malick made an excellent 90 minute film adaptation of james jones' world war ii novel . 
unfortunately , he buried it within an overlong and overreaching 3-hour long pseudo-epic . 
this is a shame because the film features an outstanding performance by nick nolte . 
the best scene is when nick nolte's character , lt . col . tall , is forced to deal with the direct refusal by capt . staros ( elias koteas ) to execute an order . 
nolte's reaction and transformation may be the best work of his career . 
had terrence malick concentrated on the great performances of nolte and koteas as well as those by sean penn , woody harrelson , and john cusack , he could have made a truly great film . 
instead , malick saddled the film with plodding pacing , unnecessary flashbacks , and a voice-over narration all designed to telegraph the great philosophical underpinnings of the story . 
the narration was especially annoying as much of it sounded like very bad high school poetry . 
with a lot of editing , the core story could be transformed into a truly classic war film . 
hopefully , the dvd version of this film will feature options to suppress the narration , and perhaps will even provide for an alternate , shorter version of the film . 
i give this film . 
i cried during _babe_ . 
i admit it . 
the special effects , the story , the great dialogue were woven together so delicately and successfully that my mind lost track that this was a " children's film " --so much so that , yes , i got a little overly sentimental . 
such , my friend , is the power of cinema . 
when word came out that they were using this newly developed f/x for a doctor dolittle update , in which eddie murphy plays the title character , and many great comic actors supply the voices , my anticipation rose to great expectations . 
they can't possibly drop the ball on this one . 
can't miss . 
can't possibly miss . 
they missed . 
what went wrong ? 
after much thought , i supply three general rules . 
 ( 1 ) don't let a television actress-turned-comedy movie director near an urbanite script ( i . e . , penny marshall's dreadful " preacher's wife " ) . 
betty thomas worked wonders with " the brady bunch movie " , but the same sitcom-airiness doesn't quite work here . 
it's as if she lifted a generic sitcom , and iced it with light doses of modern r&b . 
take away the black cast , take away the atrocious soundtrack , and you have the residue of some mid-80's kirk cameron show . 
 ( 2 ) the greater the cast , the less the individual cast-member has to do ( i . e . , 
 " con air " ) . 
it is great to have the comic voices of jenna elfman , garry schandling , john leguizimo , ellen degeneres , and gilbert godfried in your lineup , but they have nothing to do but improvise their underdeveloped , stereotyped characters , one-line-at-a-time . 
it's even worse , because sometimes their voices are so unrecognizable that you don't get the satisfaction of linking the voice to the comedian until the credits . 
now there are three character actors who do get special treatment : albert brooks brings dignity to nearly every project he's in , and the scenes as a depressed tiger do resonate a certain poignancy . 
norm mcdonald fares nearly as well , as a stray dog who learns to bond with dolittle . 
but there's little humor here . 
that rests on the shoulders of chris rock , sorely miscast and unfunny as the voice of their wise-ass guinea pig . 
even the mouth is ill-synched . 
 ( 3 ) don't let the special effects technicians walk away with the script . 
there's a certain timing that's mandatory in comedy . 
to have this timing usurped by the brilliancy of computer generated mouths or lifelike creations of jim henson's creature shop , is a travesty . 
this is not to say that special effects filled comedies or muppet movies aren't well-timed laughfests ; with the right director , they can be and have . 
here , betty thomas is clearly over her head . 
i wish i could commend the special effects , but they're merely average . 
count the number of times where the animal's mouth is turned away from the camera , or too far to notice , or ill-synched . 
this is less a " babe " and more of a " look who's barking " clone . 
you may be wondering , 'how does eddie murphy fare ? ' 
well , he came back with the exceptional " nutty professor " , and i don't doubt he can come back again . 
here , he's tied into a straight man and given little to do . 
the exceptions are when he fears he's going crazy : a far cry from his smarter-than-you'd expect routine that he's more adept at . 
it's unfortunate that he is where richard pryor was ten years ago , making lame comedies without the same bite he had given in his early years . 
after all this , what's left ? 
butt jokes . 
a _lot_ of butt jokes . 
i guess for kids that may be funny , but i was stone-faced . 
if there's a lesson the film may be telling us , is that animals have feelings too , and they care way too much for your butt . 
saw an advanced screening of the movie sniper last night , and i have to say i wasn't too impressed . 
this film is about an expert marine sniper , played by tom berenger , who is teamed with a hot-shot-young-no-experience-never-killed-a-man new partner to take out some drug-kingpins and military strong men in panama . 
sound cliche ? 
that's only the beginning . 
billy zane ( memphis belle ) played the rookie , and never seemed to get a handle on his character . 
he was so contrary and pig-headed in the beginning , you just wanted to smack him . 
then he goes " crazy " from the pressure , but seems to immediately snap out of it . 
i'm not sure if the blame should lie with the directing , editing , scriptwriting , or acting . . . 
but it didn't all come together . 
i think berenger is a pretty good actor , and he looked great in the part , covered in camo , face painted , stalking through the jungle with his high-power rifle . . . 
but once again , his character was given some pretty bad dialogue , and didn't react too logically to many of the situations . 
there was very little logical development in these characters . 
my biggest problem with this film was it's tendency to put these two snipers in as * many * inches-from-death situations as possible . 
they began to resemble g . i . joes , the greatest american hero . 
and of course their almost supernatural accuracy with their guns was called upon to get them out of far too many close calls . 
now a lot of movies are stamped out of this mold , in fact that's what made die hard so much fun : the super-hero avenger type . 
so some will enjoy the action hero heroics , but i didn't think it fit with the nice tension that was built up in the earlier scenes , and the " real life " feel of covert operations in panama . 
a word must be said on the camera work , much of it was very nice . 
the jungles of panama ( or their stand-ins in this case ) formed a very picturesque background . . . 
and the drama of speeding bullets was captured using some nice trick photography . 
many have seen the slowed down " bullet-cam " following the projectile to its target . 
this was used well in the beginning to show the feverish nightmares berenger gets when remembering the moment of the kill . 
it was dramatic when used in flashback . . . but 
it seems the director liked the technique so much he started inserting these shots ( pardon the pun ) into the real time action . . . then 
it just seemed silly . 
all in all , not a real dog : there is some nice action , good atmosphere , and pretty photography . 
but the plot is pretty lame , the acting didn't form a cohesive whole , and far too much thisclosefromdeath heroics . 
an 18-foot-high , 43-foot-long dragon is the computer-generated co- star of this strictly-by-the-numbers sword 'n' sorcery flick . 
as voiced by sean connery , " draco " is a surprisingly expressive creation who is well-deserving of his 23 minutes of screen time . 
he walks , talks , flies , fries , and even fakes his own death , all with the help of 96 computer-aided animators . 
too bad that ilm ( industrial light and magic ) couldn't spare some special effects for dragonheart's * human * co-stars . 
a bearded black hole exists where dennis quaid should be . 
he's a near-total loss as he growls glumly through his role of a disillusioned knight . 
david thewlis' evil king has a high hiss factor ( hf ) , though he's more of a mumbling oddity than anything else . 
oh , and there's some redhead in a '90's wig , who runs around either screaming or scowling , depending upon if the particular scene has her playing the woman in peril or the put upon peasant . 
the fringe flourishes include pete postlethwaite as a wandering monk with literary ambitions , julie christie ( ! ) as the good queen mother , a band of mercenaries that appear dressed for ye olde heavy-metal concert , and , believe or it not , the speaking spirit of king arthur . 
bring out your dead ! 
unfortunately , when we add it all together ( draco + fringe bits - quaid - thewlis ) , the sum total amounts to zero . 
dragonheart is , well , too much of too little . 
director rob cohen ( dragon : the bruce lee story ) has made a big , expensive movie that , while ambitiously plotted , is both murky and predictable . 
and overscored . 
and self-important . 
and the list goes on . 
 ( i must ask : did screenwriter charles edward pogue intend that * every * character be stabbed , lanced , or sliced at least once ? 
keep that man away from the knife drawer ! ) 
the last five minutes of this movie are the worst , with some silly celestial nonsense that would be laughed out of any planetarium light show , much less a summer movie . 
save your money . 
1989's " major league " was a delightful surprise . 
i didn't expect much of it when i decided to watch it on cable , but it proved to be fresh and funny . 
however , when the appeal of a movie is its freshness , the sequels are virtually guaranteed to be stale . 
that's certainly true of " major league ii " and the most recent entry , " major league : back to the minors . " 
the title is , of course , a contradiction . 
shouldn't it be " minor league ? " 
that contradiction suggests the lengths to which writer/director john warren has gone to squeeze a third movie out of the formula established by the first movie . 
original stars charlie sheen and tom berenger ( who returned for " major league ii " ) are not around , leaving corbin bernsen the only original headliner to make the third movie . 
the other veterans who return ( dennis haysbert as voodoo-inspired batter cerrano and takaaki ishibashi as tanaka , who was introduced in " league ii " ) seem to be around just to lend legitimacy to the enterprise . 
the only returning cast member who produces any laughs is bob uecker as radio announcer harry doyle , inexplicably broadcasting the games of a minor league team far from his home turf . 
the protagonist this time around is retiring pitcher gus cantrell ( scott bakula ) , who is hired by minnesota twins owner roger dorn ( bernsen ) to manage the twins' aaa team , the buzz . 
you can write the movie from here : he finds a group of misfits who need to learn how to play together as a team in order to win . 
there's a future superstar whose ego keeps him from growing ( walton goggins ) , an ex-ballet dancer ( kenneth johnson ) , a broken-down old timer ( thom barry ) , twin outfielders both named juan ( the difilippo triplets ) , and a couple pitchers with throwing problems ( judson mills and peter mackenzie ) . 
along the way , gus picks up cerrano and tanaka ( gus is supposedly an old teammate of theirs , even though he wasn't in either of the preceding films ) . 
sum total : none . 
the entire enterprise is artificial , and the cast is not ready for the hollywood majors . 
gus' antagonist is twins manager leonard huff ( ted mcginley ) . 
leonard is a slimy , sniveling little egotist , and the twins are lazy , spoiled , and full of themselves . 
 ( even watching the first movie i wondered why any real-life team would lend itself to being caricatured in this manner ) . 
gus challenges leonard to a match , the buzz vs . the twins . 
 ( wanna guess who wins ? ) 
 " back to the minors " is a movie that has no reason to exist . 
there's hardly a laugh in it , the cast is weak , and the first movie left no room for even one sequel . 
 * * * the following review contains some harsh language . . . 
but what did you expect when you clicked on this title ? 
 * * * 
cast : kristen holly smith , danica sheridan , alex boling , michael dotson , sonya hensley , janet krajeski , sabrina lu , dionysius burbano , calvin grant , jeff b . harmon written and directed by : jeff b . harmon running time : 97 minutes 
 " the thought of losing you makes me all vomity inside . " 
--- blatz balinski ( danica sheridan ) laments the fact that her lesbian lover , april ( kristen holly smith ) , has just received a telegram from her ex-fiance . 
isle of lesbos is an incredibly offensive musical comedy about april pfferpot ( smith ) , a resident of the small town of bumfuck , arkansas who is about to get married to high school sweetheart and football hero dick dickson ( michael dotson ) . 
when april gets extreme cold feet she runs home , sticks a gun in her mouth , and pulls the trigger . 
instead of killing herself , she is magically transported through her mirror into the isle of lesbos , an alternate dimension where lesbians rule and no men are allowed ( except for lance , the homosexual toilet cleaner/slave ) . 
april loves her new home and friends , but dick and her parents are not so ready to give her up . 
mr . and ms . pfferpot ( director jeff b . harmon and janet krajeski ) decide they need medical help so they enlist the aid of dr . sigmoid colon ( also jeff b . harmon ) , who claims he can cure homosexuality . 
in actuality , dr . colon is homosexual as well and begins his special " treatment " on dick dickson ( unbeknownst to dick ) . 
when april turns down dick's demand for her to return to bumfuck , he decides to take matters in his own hands and attack the isle of lesbos rambo-style . 
instead of leveling the place he falls in love with lance ( alex boling ) and the two of them , along with april and her lover blatz , get married . 
 ( note to the filmmaker : why did the character of lance make asides to the camera followed by silence that i'm assuming was inserted for the purpose of waiting until the laughter of the audience had subsided ? ) 
april's parents , feeling like there is no recourse , call in a favor to president clinton and send a nuclear bomb ( whose circuitry inexplicably is made up of a homosexual performer ) their way . 
the bomb is a dud thanks to the work of the " circuitry " and they re-wire it and send it back to washington d . c . , destroying it . 
mr . and ms . pfferpot give up trying to get their daughter back and instead decide to join her as they have some alternative sexual practices of their own . 
i'm not sure if writer/director/co-star jeff b . harmon was purposely trying to offend people because he believes in some of the ideas his movie presents or if he was just going for cheap laughs . 
either way , he manages to present some of the most offensive material i have ever seen in a movie . 
the film opens with a preacher running a small african-american child out of town , and then later moves on to the hanging of a michael jackson impersonator by the ku klux klan ( during a jaunty musical number ) , preceded by remarks about " gays and straights finally being able to put their differences behind them and work together to hate others , such as the jews " . 
if harmon was merely trying to point out how idiotic society can be , then i apologize for being so harsh on elements of his film , but it is presented so mean spiritedly that i can't help but feel like he had some serious intent . 
as for the entire central theme of the movie , i'm afraid that it's one that i just don't get . 
i tried to keep an open mind while watching it , but the homosexual elements were just too prevalent for my tastes . 
it was hard enough to watch them bash other races and sexes without them preaching about the virtues of being homosexual and accepted by society . 
how does one expect to be accepted if they are just as guilty of non-acceptance ? 
i'm not prone to judging anyone and i believe that people should be free to explore whatever avenues they wish free from the scornful eye of society , but don't force your particular rhetoric down my throat if you aren't going to show the same respect for my preferences that you wish from me . 
again , maybe i'm missing the satirical point that harmon is trying to make , but if so , i think it could have been handled a little more tactfully . 
as far as musical comedies go , isle of lesbos is no trey parker and matt stone musical , but a good portion of the songs are maddeningly catchy . 
despite the disturbing visuals , " mom and apple pie " stuck with me for the rest of the day . 
speaking of disturbing visuals , " wedding bells ain't ringing " could have been a decent song , but the accompanying visuals of spousal abuse are more harrowing than this film should be displaying . 
 " i'm a lesbian " ( which is touted in the press release as being particularly popular ) is also pretty good , but a good portion of that could be due to the stellar singing voice of ms . smith . 
it's mainly on her excellent vocals that my rating of this film is based . 
the other performers are decent , save for the rosie o'donnell like performance given by danica sheridan . 
i have no inherent problem with her character ; it is just her singing voice that leaves little to be desired . 
one particular musical number , " lesbian rock " , was one of the lowest points i have ever experienced in my film-going life thanks to a strained and lackluster vocal job by sheridan . 
the film ends about twenty minutes before the credits actually roll . 
the remainder of the running time is padded out with a few more songs ( " lesbian rock " included ) and the ridiculously presented anti-nukes message tacked on to the end for no reason other than to make it a feature length film . 
once the " isle of lesbos reprise " was reached , i felt the story had already been wrapped up well enough to end it all . 
why was the film needlessly stretched out past its obvious end ? 
isle of lesbos is available on videocassette from www . indie-underground . com . 
the transfer is pretty clean ( and all the detail of the wrinkled cloth and paint backdrops are readily apparent ) and the film is letterboxed at approximately 1 . 85 : 1 . 
in many respects , isle of lesbos has incredible cult potential ( like a rocky horror for the new millennium ) . 
this film is by no means my cup of tea , but i know there are those out there who will enjoy it . 
if you think it might be for you , then by all means seek it out . 
i , on the other hand , will be cleansing my palette with a good action film like gladiator . . . 
wait . aren't gladiator films considered to be . . . 
oh , never mind . 
one of the indicator of badness in film is the hype being remembered more than film itself . 
such was the case with boxing helena , 1993 directorial debut of jennifer chambers lynch , daughter of the great david lynch . 
made in the dying years of post-twin peaks lynch craze among movie snobs , it was hyped as another , " warped , twisted masterpiece " of lynch clan . 
kim basinger also provided extra publicity by quitting the lead role and being sued for the breech of contract . 
but , the result was extremely disappointing film , which quickly sank into well-deserved oblivion . 
the movie protagonist is nick cavanaugh ( played by julian sands ) , talented surgeon who is getting obsessed by helena ( sherilyn fenn ) , beautiful woman who ditched him after brief affair . 
cavanaugh stalks her and uses every opportunity for the pathetic attempts to re-establish the relationship . 
during one of such occasions , helena is hit by a car , and nick quickly takes the role of her personal physician in order to have his way with her . 
after she wakes up , helena discovers not only that she is prisoner in cavanaugh's stylish residence , but also that cavanaugh amputated her legs in order to prevent her from escaping . 
she is still trying to escape , so cavanaugh takes off her arms . 
apart from casting sherilyn fenn ( audrey horne in twin peaks and small cameo in wild at heart ) and the use of twisted characters and their perverse fantasies , this film by ms . lynch hasn't got anything in common with the works of director's more talented father . 
despite rather bizarre subject , the style of this film is conventional and setting is light , characters are beautiful - but the result at the end is quite sterile and the film in the end looks too artificial for dark sexual fantasy it was supposed to portray . 
jennifer lynch obviously lacks talents in directing and it becomes painfully obvious in the scenes that are supposed to erotic - its banal artificiality is even bellow the standards of playboy videos . 
the actors aren't good either . 
julian sands is terribly miscast as emotionally disturbed man - this actors is best either when he plays charismatic protagonists or villains ; being neurotic doesn't suit him . 
bill paxton was better for this role , but his presence was wasted in forgettable and unnecessary subplot dealing with helena's boyfriend . 
sherilyn fenn contributed to this film mostly by her looks , but even the her greater effort in acting couldn't help this film . 
the screenplay , on the other hand , is awful , at least for someone who had made best-seller with laura palmer's diary - the events in this movie are implausible , characters come and go without purpose and many unnecessary subplots only slow down the film and add to the total confusion . 
one of those subplots involves character of cavanaugh's " regular " girlfriend , played by betsy clarke . 
the twist at the end , although unpredictable , is unbelievable and the viewers , who had the stomach to endure entire film , would feel cheated . 
all in all , boxing helena is disorganised quasi-artistic mess of a movie that should be remembered as nothing more than one of the wiser decisions in kim basinger's career . 
let's get this one over with as quickly as possible . 
if there was a possibility to receive a refund , this review would not be forthcoming . 
but as it is , " godzilla " is without a doubt the loudest , longest , and ultimately most amateurishly written film ever released through a major studio . 
producer dean devlin and director roland emmerich should be ashamed of themselves , and as penance be forced to return to film school to watch " last year at merienbad " until they can grasp the idea of content and plot . 
no amount of hype , no amount of money can hide the fact that these filmmakers are the 90s equivalent to william beaudine ( billy the kid vs . 
dracula ) . 
 " godzilla " opens with stock footage of the bikini atoll nuclear tests interspersed with footage of iguanas playfully swimming and nuzzling their eggs . 
we are then introduced to the crew of a japanese fish canning ship ( a questionable enterprise considering that tuna processing is supposed to be supervised to eliminate the netting of dolphins ) . 
well , the ship is attacked and sunk by an unseen creature . 
later , a group of frenchmen led by philippe roache ( jean reno ) interview the sole survivor . 
in a state of shock , the only thing the man can utter is the word " gojira " ( the japanese name of the famed beast ) . 
we are then introduced to dr . nick tatopoulos ( matthew broderick , with a moniker obviously taken from the effects designer of the film ) . 
he is currently studying the effects that the chernobyl disaster has had on the local earthworm population . 
he is immediately drafted by the u . s . military and taken to panama where he is shown the huge footprints of a creature . 
in a short amount of time , another fishing boat ( loaded with canned tuna from the u . s . and korea for some reason ) is found grounded in jamaica . 
well , it seems that whatever is eating these ships is headed for new york . 
when the beast finally appears , he tears up one building , stomps a couple of trucks and makes life hell for the incumbent mayor ebert ( thumbs up for new york ) . 
the military , with dr . tatopoulos's help , have two tons of fresh fish dumped in the middle of new york to lure the beast out of its hiding place in the new york subway system . 
it finally comes crashing through the city streets and has a cute face to face with dr . tatopoulos who snaps the beast's picture . 
the monster eats the fish , the military starts shooting , and the chase is on , with the army causing 90% of the ensuing damage . 
working from a hunch as to why godzilla has decided to come to the big apple , dr . totopoulos buys a few home pregnancy kits from a local drugstore that has chosen to remain open ( even though new york has been evacuated ) . 
well the test proves that the monster is a hermaphrodite and is pregnant . 
needless to say , no one believes the good doctor about his discovery , so he must join up with the renegade french secret service agents and find the monster's nesting site and destroy the eggs before the mayor starts letting the populous back into the city ( even though the monster isn't dead yet ) . 
i sincerely hope that i've completely spoiled any interest anyone might have of seeing this film . 
i gave away the relevant plot so that i could spare those of you courageous ( or foolish ) enough to drop down an hour's wage on this tripe . 
everything about " godzilla " reeks almost as bad as the piles of rotting fish used to trap the beast . 
the script ( and let's be clear here ) by devlin and emmerich is so full of plot holes and non characters as to be sure to be the recipient of next years " razzie " award . 
the dialogue between maria pitillo ( as audrey timmonds , dr . tatopoulos' estranged girlfriend ) and mr . broderick is so adolescent , it makes teenagers giggle in disbelief ( as happened during the screening i witnessed ) . 
the film could be enjoyably campy if it didn't take itself so damn seriously . 
but to what end , as there is no commentary on humanities foibles against nature , nor is there any reference about godzilla being some sort of retaliation against mankind . 
no . godzilla is just a big dummy that got knocked up by some french immigrants and decided to let the state of new york pay for it . 
the film is bleak and ugly looking . 
taking place at night during a rain storm , the movie has little or no depth . 
everything is ugly and dark . 
new york has never looked so inhospitable since " death wish " . 
in an attempt to give the film some color , audrey timmonds carries a bright red umbrella which is unique in that everyone else in the film carries the standard gray issue . 
the only moment of composition and color is during the brief scenes on jamaica , where dr . tatopoulos finds himself standing in a giant footprint . 
the scene is nicely photographed but poorly set up . 
you know from the outset that nick is standing in a footprint . 
for a scientist , this is very poor observation . 
let's look at some of the more interesting plot holes in the film ( this activity , is becoming almost as popular as the kevin bacon game ) : 
1 . ) why does the french nuclear tests only affect one clutch of iguana eggs , and how do those eggs fuse into one beast ? 
2 . ) why would a cold blooded creature choose a cold climate ( such as new york ) to nest ? 
i don't think iguana's have a habit of migrating . 
3 . ) how can godzilla crawl through the new york subway system , slice a submarine in half , yet be unable to extricate himself from some thin ( in comparison ) steel cable on the brooklyn bridge ? 
4 . ) the brooklyn bridge is the only suspension bridge in existence that does not need it's suspension cables . 
5 . ) did godzilla carry all two hundred eggs in her belly ? 
if so , then radioactive mutations surely are wondrous creatures . 
 ( note : each egg is 10 feet tall and almost as wide . 
godzilla would have to be over 1 , 000 feet tall to carry them all ) . 
6 . ) godzilla can crush ships and eat helicopters , but new york cabs are made of stronger steel . 
7 . ) godzilla can out maneuver helicopters , bullets , torpedoes and missiles , but can't catch you on foot . 
8 . ) taxis can out maneuver godzilla . 
9 . ) godzilla can burrow through the subway system but can't tear through the park avenue tunnel . 
10 . ) why was nothing else mutated by the nuclear test as quickly as godzilla ? 
maybe a giant hermit crab in the sequel . 
11 . ) galapagos iguana's actually live in the french polynesian islands ? 
12 . ) why was dr . tatopoulos brought in by the military if they were not going to listen to him anyway ? 
13 . ) how did they evacuate new york island in less than a day , and how did they convince those new yorkers to go to new jersey ? 
14 . ) new york television stations use vhs tape for both filming and broadcasting . 
new yorkers hate beta cam . 
i could go on and on , but that would only serve to make the film seem more enjoyable than it is . 
don't be fooled , this film has less gray matter than any episode of " america's funniest home videos " . 
the performances in the film are singularly bland . 
not one performance belays any awe or fear in the face of this two hundred foot tall terror . 
the characters , in the midst of the onslaught , have time to stop and discuss the lack of good coffee , failed relationships , career choices . 
the only common occurrence that doesn't take place here is having one of the characters have a bowel movement , but then that would have made them believable . 
godzilla for the most part is okay . 
the design of the beast is funky , if not very memorable . 
one thing that comes to mind-- the major redirection of godzilla in this film is to remove his most familiar trademark , namely his atomic breath . 
now , i for one can't quite fathom how you can call this monster godzilla without that little trait . 
a good comparison would be to make a superman film and eliminate his ability to fly . 
there is so much wrong with this film that i can't really recall anything recently that has left me this cold hearted ( except for my divorce ) . 
any film that can have a two ton lizard slipping on gum balls has got to be envisioned under the influence of prozac . 
the addition of the baby raptors ( ah , i meant godzillas ) , are nothing but a direct rip off of 'jurassic park " , but with none of that film's suspense or tension . 
suffice to say that , " godzilla " is without a doubt the most brain dead motion picture of the decade . 
this is a film that needed the hype . 
with the current level of writing and directing , nothing else about the film succeeds . 
if you've seen the trailers , you've seen the best parts . 
my only suggestion for mr . d and mr . e . is that they could always go back to selling shoes . 
 . this film could be the next " rocky horror " . 
only it's not funny ! 
woody allen is one of the most successful artist-directors in hollywood , but he is becoming less and less reliable as a filmmaker . 
in his early years of film-making he mastered the simple comedy . 
from there he went into a second phase and took risks experimenting with different approaches and styles . 
some of these work better than others . 
zelig and crimes and misdemeanors are the work of a creative and intelligent artist . 
deconstructing harry goes to the other extreme and is a bizarre experiment demanding more of the viewer than it gives back . 
harry block ( allen ) has in his life only two drives . 
he wants to have sex with as many women as possible and when he makes a mess of his life and those of his lovers he wants to retreat into his writing . 
the story of this static and highly unsympathetic character is told with a number of often clumsy stylistic experiments . 
perhaps the most irritating device is to express the disjointedness of harry's life by editing harry's scenes putting in cuts in the middle as if to show missing time with something edited out . 
as a writer , harry puts his friends into his books in the thinnest of disguises . 
the film dramatizes incidents from these supposed books and cuts between his real story line and fragments from harry's books with different actors playing the real and fictional people in harry's life . 
these fragments are frustrating in their lack of completion , but even more frustrating is the bringing of the characters out of the fragments into scenes with the real characters . 
it is up to the viewer to keep track not just who is fictional and who is real but also to keep straight who is the fictional doppelganger of which real person . 
if that sounds complicated , it is . 
then as another device in one of the stories , an actor seems to have the peculiar property that he has gone out of focus and can only be seen in blurry image . 
harry sees this as a metaphor for his own condition and himself goes blurry for a short time . 
as if these touches did not create sufficient confusion , the story is told out of chronological order . 
if allen were giving the audience a story that was worth decoding , any and all of these stylistic touches could be excusable . 
but allen puts the audience through all of this to give us a portrait of harry block who is a selfish manipulator who is not worth the effort to understand . 
deconstructing harry is set at a time when harry's old college , the one that expelled him when he attended it , wants now to honor him for a lifetime of writing achievement . 
harry is searching among his friends to find one who will go with him . 
just why someone who is so unwilling to commit to a relationship with anyone suddenly needs the support of someone else is unclear . 
harry tries his current girl friend fay ( elizabeth shue ) only to find that she is about to marry harry's old friend larry ( billy crystal ) . 
block would like his son hilly ( eric lloyd ) to accompany him , but hilly's mother , previously first harry's psychiatrist and more recently his wife , refuses to let her son see his father . 
another friend richard ( bob balaban ) would go but has health problems . 
harry also considers bringing a prostitute cookie ( hazel goodman ) . 
it is interesting that allen should introduce another likable prostitute so soon after mighty aphrodite , but cookie is considerably different--black and a lot brighter than mira sorvino's character in the previous film . 
while the comedy sequences are never complete , a few are elaborate and some quite funny . 
the centerpiece of the film is a journey into hell with allen playing a sort of orpheus rescuing fay from the clutches of the devil , who looks a lot like larry . 
that story also is left uncompleted , perhaps to show harry's unwillingness to commit even to telling a story . 
the linchpin that was needed to tie together the stylistic quirks of this film was a central character who changes and who gives us something about which to care . 
that character is patently not the one allen creates in harry block and not the characters around harry as seen through his acerbic eyes . 
allen can do much better than deconstructing harry . 
i rate it a 3 on the 0 to 10 scale and a -1 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
here's a rarity : a children's film that attempts to tackle a weighty subject , is there a god ? 
done well , it could have been a gem among the wasteland of modern children's cinema . 
unfortunately , it isn't . 
with jumbled messages , and an unclear audience , wide awake was better left asleep . 
fifth grader joshua beal ( joseph cross ) is in the middle of a moral crisis . 
his beloved grandfather ( robert loggia ) has died , and joshua has begun a quest . 
he wants to find god , to discover why bad things happen . 
this religious quest is slightly disturbing for his parents ( dana delany and denis leary ) , but they do their best to cope with their son as he explores different religious faiths . 
at his catholic school , his favorite teacher , sister terry ( rosie o'donnell ) , tries to give him guidance , but this is a journey he must make on his own . 
meanwhile , he is having the most momentous year of his life . 
he has several adventures with his daredevil best friend dave ( timothy reifsnyder ) , he gets his first crush , and begins to wake up to the world around him while he is on his spiritual journey . 
it is somewhat confusing as to what the real audience for wide awake is expected to be . 
on its surface , it appears to be a kid's film . 
however , it deals with serious issues , and is likely to be boring for today's instant-gratification kids . 
and while it might seem heartening to see that someone is trying to produce something thoughtful for the kidvid audience , wide awake asks serious questions , but only delivers a cheap gimmick for an answer . 
if there were a bit more meat in the story , adults on a nostalgic bent might get a kick out of the movie . 
the actors who might have created a great cast ( o'donnell , leary and delany ) are wasted in roles that amount to little more than cameos . 
the nostalgic elements ( best friend , favorite teacher , first crush , etc . ) have been done much better in other movies , and actually seem more like filler here . 
the film's strongest scenes are some touching flashbacks depicting joshua's relationship with his grandfather . 
they show more depth than is present anywhere else in the movie . 
maybe the film would have been better if , instead of playing the relationship through flashbacks , it were set entirely during joshua's last year with his grandpa . 
it certainly would have been more entertaining . 
wide awake can best be described as a failed experiment . 
it starts out with noble aspirations , but never delivers on its promise . 
parents who do take their children to see this one ought to be prepared to answer some tough questions . . . that is if their kids aren't bored to death first . 
there's no reason to doubt that donnie brasco is based , as its opening credits proclaim , on a true story . 
but if it's an accurate picture of life on america's mean streets , than cinematic depictions of organised crime have had a much stronger basis in reality than i would have previously thought . 
for from the film's outset , when a group of hoods jocularly trade differing opinions on the merits of various automobiles ( not unlike a number of movie lowlifes who recently gave a madonna song a close reading ) donnie brasco resembles more than passingly a few gangster flicks once believed to be works of fiction . 
our eponymous hero ( johnny depp ) is not the cheap crook he first appears to be . 
brasco is joseph pistone , an undercover fbi agent who has the task of chumming-up to lefty ( al pacino ) , a seasoned hood who tutors pistone in the art of being a " wiseguy " . 
regrettably , pistone learns his lessons all too well . 
his concern for lefty , who is burdened with a heroin addicted son , exacerbates his own family troubles : his children resent his lengthy absences and his wife fears that her husband's gangster persona is becoming a little too convincing . 
true , the focus on pistone's family life does deviate from the typical gangster-flick formula , but this subplot never rises above its television drama origins . 
the unhappy couple trade predictable lines and engage in drawn-out domestic squabbles ? including an ill-advised marriage guidance routine ? that slow the film down unnecessarily . 
the biggest problem with donnie brasco , however , is that its wiseguy attitude and style lacks the flair of its many predecessors . 
the awkward use of an occasional disco tune momentarily reminds us its the 70's , but not with the consistent and blindingly tacky style ? i loved those fluoro coloured suits ? of scorces' costume drama casino . 
more importantly , pacino's presence triggers memories of his earlier movie triumphs in which similar territory was covered far more effectively . 
donnie brasco's take on american values , for instance , is feeble and obvious . 
lefty rambles out dreams of material betterment to the accompaniment of grating inspirational music . 
inexplicably , lefty's horatio alger inspired gush is supposed to move us . 
it doesn't any more than his family troubles do , which are dealt in the same saccharine and obvious manner as pistone's . 
just think a minute on how these themes were explored in the godfather movies and scarface . 
in these pictures pacino's dedication to a peculiar and bloody hyper-capitalism was twisted and confronting , while his dogged application of macho wiseguy procedure meant that his relations to friends and family was intriguingly dark ? neither were spared bloody retribution for breaching wiseguy regulations . 
donnie brasco's tawdry little crime , therefore isn't so much its repetition of familiar gangster themes , but the shameless way in which it sanitises them . 
 ( oh and by the way , i forgot to mention that the script also sports a startling subplot : pipstone's superiors are obstructive incompetents who are infuriated by his constant insubordination ? is that a " damn you mcbain ! " 
i hear from springfield way ? ) 
so the movie is cliched . 
big deal , what do you expect from a gangster-flick ? 
well you expect quality action sequences and bravado performances in abundance if its going to be a decent example of the genre . 
donnie brasco fails on both counts . 
the action scenes never rise above the ordinary and depp's woeful performance tends to smother the good-work of his comrades . 
admittedly , pacino does nothing new and michael madsen ( sonny ) simply smirks his way through the picture like a slightly subdued mr . white , but both possess an unmistakable sly charm . 
depp usually exhibits a bit of class himself , but regrettably , being in the presence of one of his betters must have left him star-struck , for he is completely hell-bent on mimicking pacino's well-earned high style . 
the consequences are painful to watch . 
its no exaggeration to say that the film's credibility is seriously strained by the sight of the pistone family's uncanny ability to keep a straight face in front of their breadwinner's phony brooklyn accent . 
perhaps we should take pity on the makers of donnie brasco . 
maybe a scrupulous adherence to pinpoint accuracy demanded tiered dialogue and scenarios weakly reminiscent of classic gangster flicks . 
if this is indeed the case , surely the makers of donnie brasco could have explored the fascinating possibility that america's underworld is committed to emulating , albeit in heavily attenuated form , their movie namesakes . 
depp could have poignantly played a simple cop who becomes a hideous parody once he is forced to mimic big-screen gangster greats . 
who knows what insights into the criminal psyche could have arisen ? 
but then again , perhaps donnie brasco isn't so true after all . 
these days the lack of originality in hollywood reflects itself in the deluge of remakes . 
but , only a few years ago , before wes craven publicly made fun of the practice , sequels had been more popular among hollywood producers . 
sequels also used to be popular among directors and movie stars whose careers went south . 
the way to regain popularity and prestige , they thought , was the use the same formulas , characters and story lines that brought them success in the first place . 
one of such celebrity was eddie murphy , black comedian of 1980s whose career was in big decline during the first part of this decade . 
in order to return to the spotlight , he chose to resurrect the franchise created by his most popular film , beverly hills cop , 1984 action comedy that had already spawned the sequel in 1987 . 
seven years later , for the third instalment , he used the directorial service of john landis , another fading star , with whom he successfully collaborated twice - in trading places and coming to america . 
this time , however , third time wasn't the charm and beverly hills iii was failure . 
eddie murphy had to wait few more years for real comeback . 
eddie murphy here plays axel foley , fast-talking streetwise detroit policeman , who raids illegal chop shop . 
the routine police action ends in tragedy , when the criminals kill foley's boss . 
determined to bring the killers to justice , foley realises that their leader is ellis de wald ( timothy carhart ) . 
when it turns out that de wald happens to be security chief for wonderland theme park in los angeles , foley goes back to los angeles . 
there , with the help of his old friend , local policeman rosewood ( judge rheinhold ) , foley would clash with money counterfeit ring . 
ten years has passed since the original and times are definitely different . 
in this decade , the contrast between blue collar detroit and yuppie beverly hills , which provided a lot of gags in 1984 film , simply doesn't work . 
screenwriter steven e . de souza provides another conflict , this time between the childish sillyness of the good guys and business-like professionalism of the bad guys . 
since foley belongs to the former , his character had to watch his language , and the tone of the film in general is more infantile . 
unfortunately , this film still belongs to action movie genre , and there is too much violence for little children . 
nice example is the humorous scene in the beginning , which turns into standard ramboesque bloodbath . 
unlike donner with the lethal weapon series , landis simply can't balance the comedy with " regular " action , and the result is a film that fails in both aspects . 
action scenes are sometimes interesting , but not too spectacular ( at the end , scenery of wonderland is more fascinating than the action itself ) ; humour , on the other hand , falls flat . 
to make even worse , some minor characters from 1984 film gets unnecessary and sometimes irritating overexposure ( especially art expert turned into arms dealer , played by bronson pinchot ) . 
in the end , although the film provided some entertainment , viewers , at least critical ones , would probably be happy to know that there aren't any plans for beverly hills iv . 
i have never been so confused after watching a movie . 
 " meet joe black " is probably one of the most visually satisfying films of this year , with a cinematography , music and cast that will dazzle most of us . 
at the same time it is probably the most boring and ridiculous experience hat you will have this season . 
at first you marvel at the elegant direction , graceful cinematography and sensual musical score . 
then you'll wait for something to happen for half an hour , but when you finally understand what's going on , you'll wonder what are actors such as anthony hopkins , brad pitt and claire forlani are doing in a film like this ? 
the script is simply a silly and unresolved story , which is artificially stretched into a three hour long motion picture . 
it feels like an eternity . 
most of the time it is a pompous soap opera , filled with empty dialogue that the actors deliver in a high pitched voice and " meaningful " winks . 
the film is based on alberto caesella's play " death takes a holiday " . 
the story concentrates around bill ( anthony hopkins ) who lives a fulfilled life as a successful business man , but sometimes he wakes up in the middle of the night and hears a voice that is saying " yes " . 
soon he meets a young elegant gentlemen ( brad pitt ) who introduces himself as " death " . 
it is bill's time . 
but death has other plans . 
it has come down to us simple mortals to find out what it means to be alive . 
our bill is chosen to be death's guide and in exchange he gets time . 
bill introduces death as joe black , who immediately becomes the center of everyone's attention . 
bill's business partners speculate about why joe is constantly at bill's side , lives in his house and resides at his office . 
that is not all , however . 
bill's youngest daughter susan ( claire forlani ) falls in love with the mysterious stranger and joe falls in love with her . 
this relationship is bound to have some serious consequences . 
it wouldn't be fair to say that this film didn't have some interesting moments , such as the scene where joe is invited to join bill's family for dinner . 
when joe starts enjoying peanut butter and later falls in love , the experience is somewhat different . 
it is obvious that a story like this story is very difficult to structure . 
it's one thing to say : " wouldn't it be fun to have death take human form and come down to earth . . " 
to create a motion picture out of this is another . 
four screenwriters have worked on a script that lacks drive and logic . 
it is overlong and too primitive to pass as a serious film . 
on the other hand it demonstrates incredible performances and a very decent direction by martin brest ( " scent of a woman " ) . 
hopkins looks great in any role , and no matter how shallow or hollow it is , he will complete it . 
his talent and charisma are needed here more than any where else , since it actually saves the film from a complete embarrassment . 
but pitt is the one that got one of the most difficult roles of recent time . 
how can you play death in human form ? 
to me it seems that death and life are not something that can be associated with earthly matters . 
they are not creatures , but phenomenas . 
saying that death takes human form would be the same as to suggest that eternity would take human form . 
handling such a ridiculous task is incredibly difficult and pitt deserves some credit for his work . 
speaking in a calm , soft voice , portraying death as a lonely , distant and powerful guy that is unfamiliar with practical earthly matters . 
he looks and acts more like an angel of death , rather than a demon or a red-eyed executioner . 
claire forlani and others are also fine , stretching their stereotypical characters to their limits . 
unfortunately their performances are not enough to rescue this film from its self inflicted misery . 
in other words this is not what i expected from the director of " scent of a woman " . 
it could ( and should ) be better with such cast and crew . 
in the end it seems as if they have all been intensively working on a ravishingly looking soap opera . 
this is crap , but , honestly , what older american audience is going to be able to resist seeing jack lemmon and james garner as bicker- ing ex-presidents ? 
especially when their supporting players in- clude dan aykroyd as the current commander in chief , lauren bacall as a former first lady , and john heard as the dan quayle-ish vice president . 
yup , you're talkin' pre-sold property here and , for warner brothers , the perfect fit into their now-ritual grumpy old men holiday slot . 
for the non-discriminating viewer , my fellow americans is fine . 
the raw star power alone will have audiences applauding this atrocious political- thriller road-comedy . 
 ( they did in mine , heaven help us . ) 
for the rest of us , the movie is immediately tiresome . 
the tone is terrible and the banter is worse . 
forget wit-- lemmon and garner merely exchange profanities through most of the movie . 
 ( has anyone counted the number of first penis references ? ) 
sure , some of the bits are absurdly funny , including a men's room macarena joke , the appearance of an elvis impersonator on a trainload of tarheels , and an all dorothy marching band performing " over the rainbow " at a gay men's march . 
the get there from here , though , you have to submit to one of the most offensively overbearing musical scores of all time . 
judas priest , is there a single moment of silence in this film ? 
even the dialogue gets drowned out . 
what a waste . 
keep cool , a chinese film directed by semi-accomplished filmmaker yimou zhang , was one of the kickoff films for this year's hawaii international film festival . 
on the day it premiered , lines of eager moviegoers stretched around the block , some anticipants having queued up well in advance to get a good seat in the theater . 
they need not have wasted their time . 
the movie is billed as a comedy , but is surprisingly bereft of humor . 
there are noticeable attempts at laughs , but very few tries actually click . 
i wondered if there were jokes that i wasn't getting because i'm not from china , but unfortunately my conclusion was that this lack of humor couldn't be attributed to the cultural barrier either . 
keep cool just isn't very funny . 
the prelude to the film was a visit by keep cool's producer who , with the help of an interpreter , regaled us of how in order to get the print to the festival in time , an assistant hand carried it on the plane from china to hawaii . 
although the print made it , the assistant's luggage was lost . 
too bad that story wasn't in the movie , because it got a big laugh . 
qu ying , the film's female lead , was also on hand to give a few comments . 
however , whereas the producer politely made regular pauses in his dialog so the interpreter could bring us up to speed , ms . ying saw fit to say everything she had to say in one , fast-paced , incredibly long tirade . 
it was dizzying ; good foreshadowing for the film . 
you see , keep cool is filmed almost totally with a camera handheld by a man with a bad case of the shakes . 
at least that's the way it seems , since the camera is constantly moving . 
cinema verite is one thing , but panning and shaking around until your audience has a headache is another . 
although some might consider it a form which helps give the viewer an idea of the anarchic state into which chinese youth is slowly growing , i found it thoroughly distracting , and after a while , quite annoying . 
headache , as i said . 
the film is about a young bookseller ( wen jiang ) who is after a young woman ( qu ying ) . 
they used to be romantically involved , but the woman grew tired of him and left the relationship . 
the first half of the film is about the young man's plan to win her back . 
of course the thing is , she doesn't want to be won back , and has a nightclub owner friend of hers rough him up a bit . 
in the fight , the young man grabs a laptop computer belonging to a bystander and attempts to use it to fend off his attacker , but only ends up smashing it against a lamppost . 
we later find out that the laptop belongs to an older man who wishes to get his damaged computer replaced . 
there is a funny scene ( the only one in the film ) where the young man tries to use some twisted logic in order to get the older man to seek out the nightclub owner ( baotian li ) in order to recoup his losses . 
there is no sense to be made out of the young woman's behavior ; cold one minute , caring the next , so we feel no sympathy for her character . 
the bookseller would be better off without her . 
although the second half of the film causes us to lose a lot of sympathy for the young bookseller as well , who is obsessed with chopping off the nightclub owner's hand as revenge for the beating he took , it also offers us some nice interaction between the bookseller and the older man . 
while the bookseller is blinded by his thirst for revenge , the older man is the voice of reason and tries to rationalize each situation . 
his quest to end the dispute peacefully and equitably is the one we identify with , but it is frustrating to see that he seems to be talking to a brick wall half the time . 
a friendship develops between the two men , but it occurs too late in the film for the audience to appreciate . 
although only an hour and a half in length , keep cool contains extraneous material . 
the whole plot of how the bookseller is after the young woman could have been taken out , since we don't see her from the midpoint on . 
a case of mistaken identity or some other device could have served as the point of conflict between the bookseller and the nightclub owner , and would have saved us from the bookseller's boring pursuit during the first half . 
but of course , this would have shortened the movie to less than an hour . 
there are a few things that keep cool does right . 
as mentioned before , the interaction between the bookseller and the older man is generally pretty good . 
although it grows tiresome , the reasoning with the unreasonable is a nice exercise in logic , and represents the differences in thinking between generations . 
in one scene , for example , the bookseller quotes confucius to get his point across , but the older man claims the quote was misinterpreted , and that it means something entirely different . 
also effective is the way zhang sets up tension within a scene , such as when the bookseller is getting ready to cut off the hand of the unwitting nightclub owner . 
the nightclub owner is counting out money , slapping each bundle of currency on the table . 
with every shot of his hand , we can hardly stand the interminable wait before the bookseller is going to pull out his cleaver and exact his revenge . 
unfortunately , these crumbs are not enough to overcome the rest of the film's shortcomings , and weren't enough to prevent that headache from lingering after i left the theater . 
although i had not been a viewer of the " rugrats " television series , i went into their first animated feature film , " the rugrats movie , " with a positive attitude . 
the trailer looked cute enough , after all . 
after seeing it , i think the words in my recent " antz " review , in which i stated that it was the worst film of its type since 1995's " the pebble and the penguin , " were a bit premature . 
 " the rugrats movie , " is bottom-of-the-barrel children's fare at its worst , and starts to make , " antz " look good in comparison . 
as in the show , " the rugrats movie , " is about a group of very little friends , ranging from babies to a three-year-old . 
the head of the group , tommy pickles ( e . g . 
daily ) , becomes distraught when his mother has a newborn baby named dill ( get it ? 
dill pickles ? . . . hardee-har-har ! ) and is informed by his three-year-old cousin , anjelica ( cheryl chase ) , that the new babies always take all of the attention away from the other children . 
when the other children , chuckie , and twins lil and phil , suggest taking dill back to the hospital , tommy goes along with it , but on their way there , they crash in the forest , and become lost , running into wolves and circus monkeys , among other things . 
 " the rugrats movie , " judging from the idea of being lost in the woods , could have been a potentially fun family film , and there were many different things that could have been done with the story . 
so what did the writers choose to do ? 
why , they set up a protracted , cliched scene where the children almost go over a waterfall , of course ! 
for the youngest of children ( ages 3-7 ) , " the rugrats movie , " may very well entertain them , judging from the audience i saw this with . 
of course , if you looked around at all of the older kids and their parents , they were all desperately struggling to stay awake , and that included me . 
for an adult , " the rugrats movie , " is a piece of garbage . 
the plotline is unoriginal and the writing has absolutely no wit or charm . 
there isn't one laugh to be had in the film , nor is there any excitement . 
if anything is even marginally good in the picture , it is the bright animation style , so it is especially unfortunate that it wasn't to service a more quality film . 
 " the rugrats movie " is doa from the start . 
i am all for a worthwhile family movie , but sometimes an animated film comes along that is simply awful . 
as said before , young children may like it , but even they deserve better than this . 
for adults , it is a nearly unbearable , excruciating chore to sit through . 
as for me , " the rugrats movie , " is not the worst of the year , nor is it the most deeply hated , but it is the most boring . 
parents : do yourselves a favor and take your kids to see the rerelease of , " the wizard of oz . " 
that is a picture that contains a great deal of magic and wonder , two things of which , " the rugrats movie , " is completely missing . 
plunkett & macleane is a period piece mired down by modern mtv pretentions . 
i have nothing against the mtv approach to filmmaking -- used properly it can save a movie ( see stigmata ) -- but it ruins this one , making a muddled , incoherent mess out of a potentially interesting premise . 
there are certain genres that just don't go together . 
the film opens with a sequence that i still don't understand . 
it involves some sort of prison outbreak , a robbery , and a gem that keeps being eaten . 
in any case , the caper ( whatever it may be ) brings together plunkett and macleane ( robert carlyle and johnny lee miller , respectively ) , two happy-go-lucky brits with no way to make a living . 
they make a pact to steal money from the rich and give it to themselves until they earn enough money to buy a ticket to america . 
their first heist involves a young debutante named lady rebecca ( liv tyler ) ; a woman macleane was especially friendly with at a party just earlier . 
his decorum when stripping her of her valuables earns our two crooks the name " gentleman highwaymen . " 
lady rebecca also happens to be the niece of the lord chief justice , a glaringly arrogant man nearing the end of his political career . 
he demands that the robbers be caught and punished immediately , leaving the job in the hands of the devious chance ( ken stott ) who has a few more things on his mind than catching criminals . 
meanwhile , macleane falls in love with rebecca infuriating the businesslike plunkett , who doesn't want his plans to be foiled by his partner's mindless romantic travails . 
director jake scott , son of ridley scott ( alien , blade runner ) , has his father's knack for setting up atmospheric shots but none of his skill in actually moving the camera . 
most of the action scenes are filmed in such a rapid , jerky way that it's impossible to comprehend what's going on . 
the camerawork is even more nauseating than in the purposefully dizzying the blair witch project due to its lack of fluidity . 
instead of utilizing panning shots to impress upon us the scope of the events scott uses attention-deficit-disorder edits . 
he barely ever holds a shot for more than ten seconds and during the faster scenes it seems more like a couple frames between each cut . 
the weird , almost defiant lack of dialogue ( there are no -- no -- conversations lasting over , say , 20 seconds ) undermines character definition and our two protagonists come off as ciphers rather than characters . 
the love affair between macleane and rebecca is no different , emotionless and unrealistic . 
when the script calls for macleane to decide between going to america and going to meet his lover , there is no reason for us to believe it would be worth it for him to abandon his goal ; he and rebecca barely even speak to each other throughout the film . 
plunkett and macleane wants desperately to be a triumph of style over substance but since its style , quite frankly , blows , the film has no hope of succeeding on any level . 
i wanted to appreciate this movie on the basis of its admittedly kinetic pace but i couldn't -- it was so kinetic it gave me a headache . 
 * this review contains spoilers * as with most of her films , director amy heckerling's latest , loser , seesaws between unpleasant and artificial , and is sometimes both at once . 
when she tackles big issues , such as abortion in fast times at ridgemont high , it's impossible to tell whether she's being matter-of-fact or glib about them ( they carry an almost documentary starkness ) , but whatever the case , she continually refuses to comment politically . 
such is the sitcom tendency of her work : to jeopardize the innocence of her characters and then hit the reset button . 
this fear of drama soured me on fast times . . . , look who's talking , clueless , and now loser , in which ms . heckerling also demonstrates , for the first time , zero affinity for the milieu . 
has anyone , for instance , ever met a girl in the stylistic vein of mena suvari's dora ? 
attired in black thrift , her eye shadow smeared to racoon chic and her bangy red hair barely contained by girlish clips , she accepts the label of goth , but no self-respecting goth girl ever admitted to digging , as dora does , those geriatric rockers everclear , nor willingly went anywhere with a six-pack-wielding fratboy stranger . 
the mechanics of loser's tired old introvert-boy-falls-for-extrovert-girl plot drive its protagonists into cultural non-specificity , so that they become even less than stereotypes . 
they become walking wardrobes . 
small-town transplant paul ( a strangely static jason biggs ) , our eponymous hero , always wears his woolly hunter's cap with flaps covering the ears , and beneath it rests a parted moptop that couldn't scream " shemp " ( the lame stooge ) wig louder . 
he has three smug-looking roommates ( the one-dimensional trio is not supposed to be brothers , but they share similar facial features , including and especially mouths ) , and their fashion sense is incomprehensibly glam . 
though they're not overtly transvestites , heckerling seems to be equating flamboyance with villainy ; how very cruising of her . 
 ( the dormies conspire to evict paul and regularly molest women they have drugged . 
dora ignorantly downs one of their date rape potions . 
unfortunately , either heckerling or the studio is too cowardly to admit if she was subsequently violated . ) 
when paul rescues dora from said narcotic scare , he learns that she is dating their unctuous european lit professor edward alcott ( superb greg kinnear ) . 
although paul's already in love with dora by this point , as is bound to happen to losers when pretty girls address them by name , he gets altruistic and pretends the flowers he bought her are actually from alcott . 
she's thrilled , but nevertheless spends a few days at paul's to recuperate ; the two bond over emergency kitten surgery and a broadway play ( " cabaret " ) , and just when paul's got in his head that she's starting to love him back in that non-friendly way , she decides to become alcott's live-in girlfriend . 
cue precious hommage to the graduate , shots of paul drifting around berkeley--er . . . 
 ( aside : simon & garfunkel's " parsley , sage , rosemary & thyme " should never have been allowed in another motion picture . ) 
heckerling has a lot in common with nora " you've got mail " ephron , the only other prominent chick directing comedies today , in that neither has any use for strong-willed women . 
men continue to trod on dora until the bitter end ( in the final scene , she gives paul a big smooch after he blurts out his feelings in what amounts to a creepy ultimatum ) , and dora ultimately shrugs off being drugged against her will--mere hours after paul hints to her that she was poisoned , she's cheerily redecorating his apartment . 
 ( heckerling is so laissez-faire about the issue in general that she reserves the comeuppance of the would-be rapists for jokey epilogue titles . ) 
goth veneer aside , there are an awful lot of girls out there who behave as erratically as dora , and enough angry young dude filmmakers to make movies about them . 
heckerling misses her shot at having dora transform herself into a role model , and while such arcs may not be heckerling's social responsibility , it is a privilege i would have taken advantage of if i were in her shoes . 
 ( consider , too , that dora is the film's sole female principal . ) 
not that loser is worth contemplating this seriously--god knows heckerling didn't . 
that is her hallmark . 
 ( --- for more first-run , dvd , and books-about-movies reviews , plus contests and the proverbial " more ! " , 
visit 'film freak central , ' @ http : //filmfreakcentral . net 
--- ) 
fantastically over hyped , godzila finally lumbers onto the big screen . 
the film opens with footage of nuclear testing on the french polynesian islands , then an attack on a boat from some beast , and finally we join dr . nick tatopoulos ( broderick looking about 17 years old ) doing some research in chernobyl . 
some shady u . s government guys appear , and ask him to come to an island where they have massive footprints , from what looks like a giant lizard . 
and what's more , this beast is heading for new york . 
gulp ! 
although godzilla should be a non stop roller coaster ride , and at some points it is , there is something curiously uninvolving and unexciting about this movie . 
the main faults lie with the acting and writing , common problems with 'summer blockbuster' movies . 
broderick is pretty useless as the hero , with no humour or a 'tough guy' image . 
while emmerich's previous summer flick , independence day ( 1996 ) had wisecracks and action from jeff goldblum and will smith , this has neither . 
also , maria pitillo , as broderick's former girlfriend , is just as useless , with a chronic disability in acting . 
she's incapable of showing emotion , speaks every line in the same way , and basically she's total crap . 
it's up to french actor jean reno to save the day , and indeed he does , turning in a campy performance as a french secret agent . 
shame he has such little screen time in such a overlong film . 
hank azaria also turns up as a crazy cameraman named 'animal' , and he adds a little life to the picture . 
also making an appearance is harry shearer ( probably best know for doing voices in the simpsons ) as a slimy news reporter . 
o . k , so the acting is not up to par , but it never is in these movies . 
but what about the script ? 
well , that's not up to par either . 
emmerich and screenwriting pal dean devlin seem so caught in the destruction of new york city that they forgot to write a script . 
the dialogue is banal ( broderick looks at a lot of fish and utters 'that's a lot of fish . ' ) , and the character development is non existent ( reno plays the typical frenchman ( 'no croissant ? ' ) , 
broderick forever remains a geeky scientist . ) 
also , the film is seriously lacking a sense of humour . 
the jokes that are uttered are pathetic , and there's an 'hilarious' running gag about siskel and ebert . 
 ( the mayor is mayor ebert , and is assistant is called gene ! 
ha ha ha ha ! . ) 
the plot is dire , and in the end just rips off jurassic park ( 1993 ) by having lots of baby godzilla's ( i . e . 
velicorapters ) running around new york . 
right , so the script and acting suck . 
but what about the special effects ? 
thankfully , they're are quite good . 
godzilla is an impressive piece of cgi , although we don't see much of him because the movie is so dark . 
the destruction of new york is pretty well done aswell . 
but although they are impressive , they can't save godzilla from being an hugely disappointing and boring movie . 
the movie goes on for far too long aswell , and it can't seem to decide on a ending . 
and of course , the ending itself leaves possibility for a sequel . 
let's just hope one never arrives . 
movie concepts are often pitched to producers with mathematical formulas involving successful films of the past . 
so , undoubtedly one day someone said , " 'evolution ? ' 
it's 'ghostbusters' plus 'men in black' plus 'tremors . ' " 
and so it is . 
sum total none . 
the alienbusting begins when a meteor lands in glen canyon , arizona . 
community college science profs ira kane ( david duchovny ) and harry block ( orlando jones ) take some samples from the meteor and discover that one-celled organisms from inside it are evolving rapidly , doing in hours what took millions of years for life on earth . 
just about the time i was wondering , " hey , doesn't the government usually come in and take over the whole area in these movies , " the government came in and took over the whole area . 
the leader of the pack , gen . woodman ( ted levine ) , turns out to be an old nemesis of ira's , and ira and harry are blocked from doing further research . 
meanwhile , the organisms continue to grow until they are large enough to start attacking people . 
by this time , ira and harry have gained a friend in dr . allison reed ( julianne moore ) of the center for disease control . 
a country club poolboy , wayne green ( seann william scott ) , has also attached himself to the merry band . 
but can they find the means to stop the aliens in time ? 
director ivan reitman seems to be revisiting his biggest hit , 1984's " ghostbusters , " but " evolution " falls miserably short . 
one reason is readily apparent . 
 " ghostbusters " had three really funny guys as its scientists ( bill murray , dan aykroyd , and harold ramis ) , but " evolution " has one really funny guy ( orlando jones ) who can adlib and milk the comic potential of lines that prove useless in anyone else's hands . 
for good measure , " ghostbusters " had the comic talents of rick moranis ; " evolution " offers seann william scott , who was much funnier in " american pie " and " road trip " than he is here . 
scott has one amusing scene where he sings " you are so beautiful to me " to a dragon-like alien to draw it into a trap . 
other than that , scott seems unable to make much of the thin material the writers gave him . 
an actor in search of a forte , david duchovny looked for his gritty action hero side in " playing god " and his romantic side in " return to me . " 
now he wants to find his wacky comedic talent ; what we all find is that he doesn't have any . 
look for him to be back on tv in five years or so . 
another sad case is julianne moore , who needs to be more selective about the offers she accepts . 
she's a talented actress with an impressive list of credits and award nominations , so why is she trying to do slapstick comedy ? 
her character has a tendency to trip over and bump into things , but the trait comes off as a pathetic plea for laughs . 
the sole saving grace of the film is jones . 
he's at the center of the movie's funniest scene -- where an alien bug invades harry's body and has to be pulled out through his ass . 
jones is the only cast member who can take the comedic ball and run with it , but he can't carry the whole movie by himself . 
he found himself in a similar situation in " the replacements , " where he was also the only comic talent in an ensemble cast . 
jones will eventually find the project that will make him a major comedy star , but this isn't it . 
well arnold has completed the seemingly impossible task . 
he has made three consecutive unsatisfactory action films . 
in a domain that he owns , it is very surprising that this goliath of an action star can not tell a good action script from a bad one . 
eraser , back in 1996 , was a confused film that made no attempt at all to make sense . 
batman and robin , in 1997 , was the black sheep of the batman series with ridiculous acting , idiotic action scenes , and painfully flashy costumes . 
now in 1999 , " end of days " ( not " the end of days " ) is the third strike in a tough at bat for arnold . 
is this the end of a powerful action star's long-lived career ? 
will arnold ever give us another unforgettable performance in another unforgettable classic like those in the past ( " terminator " , " terminator 2 : judgement day " , " predator " ) ? 
or an unforgettable performance in a great guilty pleasure like those in the past ( " commando " , " red sonja " , " true lies " ) ? 
it doesn't look that way . 
 " end of days " begins with the birth of a baby girl in 1979 who inexorably , due to the formation of the stars on that night , will be the carrier of satan's baby the hour before new year's of 2000 . 
fortunately for the movie's sake , the girl grows up and now resides in manhattan with skyscrapers , subway trains in dark tunnels , and a myriad of inept nypd officers . 
it's an action film's dream come true when the director is given tons of cool stuff to blow up . 
imagine if the girl had lived in anytown , usa , where the only thing to destroy is a dairy queen and a post office . 
arnold schwarzenegger ( jericho cane ) , in a series of boring events finds himself in the middle of a religious battle between the church , who is trying to hide the girl ( or in some cases trying to kill her ) , and satan ( gabriel byrne ) who is trying to make her pregnant . 
if the devil is successful , the world will no longer exist as we know it . 
jericho feels it is his duty to protect the girl from everyone because 1 ) he once had faith but no longer does and 2 ) his wife and daughter were killed and he feels responsible for it . 
jericho cane is your cliched , by-the-numbers hero right up to his name . 
arnold fittingly plays the character as cliched as he can . 
he shouts at everyone , from cops to priests , to the devil . 
in one truly hilarious scene , which was supposed to be the ultimate dramatic high point , jericho screams to the devil ; " you are a @#$^% ! & 
choir boy ! 
you are a choir boy ! " 
those two lines marked the high points of this film . 
a movie can still be enjoyable when the supporting cast is more effective than the main actor . 
 " end of days " fails to contain any memorable performances with the exception of gabriel byrne . 
byrne , playing a man who has been made the manifestation of the devil , seems to be the only one who is having fun in this whole movie . 
he wonderfully plays a manipulative villain with the power to control everyone at any time . 
the annoying thing about his character , however , is that he has the power to kill any human with a simple punch in the face , yet he finds it impossible to seriously hurt jericho . 
i can not count the number of times he could have killed jericho and taken the girl from his custody . 
the other actors in the film give very weak and unconvincing performances . 
kevin pollak , who plays the partner and close friend of jericho , is the supposedly funny character in the film ( every action movie has one ) . 
the one problem is that pollak does not deliver one funny line . 
robin tunney plays the chosen mother of satan's baby with extreme annoyance . 
she gets no sympathy from any of the characters in the film , except arnold who pretends she is his wife and daughter , or any of the viewers in the audience . 
in one unnecessary scene , tunney walks out of her room and takes her top off . 
is this her job in the film ? 
the actors are not to blame entirely because the script is terrible . 
you can tell a script is terrible when you are able to predict what will happen minutes before it does . 
this little prediction game is a very fun exception to trying to sit through this nonsense of a movie . 
in a last attempt to make this movie good , special effects are used to try to entertain the audience . 
but without a memorable action scene in the whole film , the director has not done his job successfully . 
this film would have gotten a c+ if arnold stood in front of a camera and shouted " you are a ! $@^@ * ^ 
choir boy ! ! " 
for two hours . 
whether or not i would be considered a trekker probably depends on whom you would ask . 
i have been a fan of both the original series and its recently retired follow-up , as well as the even- numbered entries in the film series . 
however , i have never been one of those folks who store away trek minutiae and get into debates over the relative merits of spock vs . data . 
somewhere along the line , the " star trek " film series began to seem more and more directed at those in the latter category , and star trek : generations may be the natural conclusion of this direction . 
its production values may be high , but the writing is frequently appalling , and instead of a script has a collection of references , in-jokes and ill-defined characters . 
generations opens in the late 23rd century , where members of the original enterprise crew , including captain james t . kirk ( william shatner ) , are present for the christening of the latest ship to bear that name . 
no sooner is it out on its maiden voyage than a distress signal brings them to the nexus , a mysterious ribbon of energy . 
among those rescued from the nexus is long-lived alien dr . soran ( malcolm mcdowell ) , but he is none-too-pleased at being back in the real world . 
seventy-eight years later , soran is still trying to get back to the nexus , and again encounters an enterprise , this one led by captain jean-luc picard ( patrick stewart ) . 
soran's plan involves destroying a star with an inhabited planet , and the only hope for saving 230 million people is the historic meeting of two enterprise captains . 
i don't think it is an insult to fans of " star trek " to suggest that to a certain extent , the particulars of a plot are not really the most important elements in a " trek " film . 
it's about a chance to visit with old friends , and if they are involved in a truly interesting story it can be considered gravy . 
but even that interpretation assumes that characterization has to be consistent , and in generations that just doesn't happen . 
data ( brent spiner ) is particularly victimized by this sloppy writing . 
in the film's major sub-plot , data decides to use a chip which will give him human emotions , a chip he has had in his possession for over a year . 
what is his motivation for taking this drastic and perhaps dangerous step ? 
he doesn't get a joke . 
once the chip is in place , spiner gets to have a lot of fun with data's new emotions , but the point is that he's no longer the data we know . 
if the rest of the " next generation " cast fares any better , it's only because they're on the screen so little that they're simply window dressing . 
but then again , this story isn't really about the new crew . 
it's about kirk and picard , the cowboy and the politician , sharing the screen . 
the huge surprise is that william shatner blows patrick stewart away . 
perhaps because he knows this is his last go-round in the part that made him a legend , shatner looks like he's having the time of his life ; stewart , on the other hand , borders on the deferrential , and is saddled with the same lackluster motivations as everyone else in the cast . 
stewart's edginess is indicative of what may be a very bad sign for paramount's hopes to turn the new cast into the same kind of franchise the original cast was : these are clearly the not ready for big screen players . 
by contrast , the prologue which features scotty ( james doohan ) and chekhov ( walter koenig ) is the highlight of the film . 
these characters have become part of the popular mythology , and when they take over the enterprise in a moment of distress , it's a moment of high energy . 
only thirty years of history can create a moment like that , and that's time this new crew doesn't have . 
it certainly doesn't help that the plot they are stuck in is so convoluted and badly constructed that you need to leave a trail of bread crumbs to find your way out again . 
it's also loaded with little gags all aimed at those who are familiar enough with the series to turn to all their friends in a shared nudge of recognition . 
i wonder whether anyone who is coming in cold to the " trek " universe at this point would be anything but baffled and bored by what is going on . 
and what a waste of malcolm mcdowell , who could have been a great monomanical villain but should have been given a much more compelling reason for his obsession . 
there are plenty of details both scientific and of continuity to pick at , but to do so would be to ignore generations' major flaws . 
however , i would like to make one recommendation : seatbelts . 
not just for the enterprise crew , although you'd think by the 24th century space travel wouldn't involve rolling around on the floor during a battle . 
no , i think the audience might need them more . 
this journey is one bumpy ride . 
they should have stuck to the promise emblazoned on the original movie's poster : " no sequel . " 
scary movie 2 is nowhere near as funny as its predecessor , and it is not because the wayans brothers , shawn and marlon doing the writing and keenen ivory behind the camera , don't try . 
what defeats them is the genre they have chosen to spoof . 
the first movie - an outrageous , low-brow , savage satire of teen slasher flicks such as scream and i know what you did last summer - succeeded because of its take-no-prisoners attitude toward a type of film that was in vogue , familiar and popular . 
in scary movie 2 , the filmmakers take on the haunted house-ghost story format which , if you look at the grosses for such recent lame offerings as the respective remakes of the haunting and house on haunted hill , did not draw audiences nor enter the cultural psyche as did the various teen slasher series . 
scary movie 2 does start off promising with a wonderful spoof of the exorcist , featuring james wood in the max von sydow role and veronica cartwright lampooning ellen burstyn . 
of course split pea soup is the punch line - an overabundant amount , which offers the hope that the rest of the movie will be just as tasteless and excessive . 
but this pre-credit sequence has nothing at all to do with the main action , which features the cast members from the original signing up to spend a weekend at a creepy haunted mansion as part of a university class project . 
some of the jokes are as scatological and offensive as in the original , but they lack that take-no-prisoners bite that raised scary movie to the heights of burlesque . 
scary movie 2 merely lurches from one lame sendup to another , offering weak spoofs of that nike shoe ad in which everyone does acrobatics with a basketball , and the films what lies beneath and hannibal ( features that only faired adequately at the box office ) , john woo's mission : impossible 2 and charlie's angels . 
it is as if the wayans and their team of writers - at least seven are credited - just threw ideas in a blender and hoped they'd coalesce . 
they don't . 
while the pace of the original left you breathless , the sequel moves with the speed of an 18-wheeler carrying two tons of concrete up a steep mountain road . 
you can almost hear the reels panting . 
scary movie 2 tries very hard to live up to its original , but it falls very short . 
it's a dissatisfying spectacle , a very weak sister of a very good movie . 
the really scary aspect of this sequel is how disappointing it really is . 
vikings v . bears ? 
no , this isn't the lineup for monday night football . 
rather , these are the two opposing forces that will battle to the death in " the 13th warrior , " a film that is as dramatically flat as it is gratuitously gory . 
based on michael crichton's book , eaters of the dead , this viking saga tries to evoke the mysticism of fabled norsemen and the glorious battles that they fought . 
their strength and honor would eventually etch their place in history among the greatest warriors that ever picked up a sword . 
luckily for the vikings , however , their warring abilities were not as clumsy as this film . 
antonio bandaras is ahmed , a travelling ambassador . 
accompanied by his friend ( omar shariff in a cameo ) , they eventually come across a small viking village . 
we see that the vikings are an extremely proud group whose greatest strength is their fortitude . 
they laugh heartily , revel in their arrogance , and sing songs of battles won . 
but their festivities are about to be halted when a messenger boy arrives to tell the village leader that a great evil is threatening their land . 
help is needed quickly . 
an elderly , fortune-telling witch arrives . 
after a brief incantation , she proclaims that 12 warriors and one more " not of norse blood " are needed to ensure victory . 
personally , i always wonder why people believe these oracles when they look so haggardly and on the brink of insanity . 
nonetheless , 12 men eagerly accept their place while ahmed becomes the pivotal 13th . 
the group then sets out to do the greatest battle of their lives . 
of course during their ride , ahmed becomes the target of fun for the other 12 burly viking warriors . 
but he ably shows that it's not the size of the dog in the fight but rather the size of the fight in the dog . 
he is able to overcome the proud arrogance of the vikings , but will his skills ( and that of the group ) be enough to defeat whatever evil is menacing the countryside ? 
it does not look promising . 
these creatures , resembling bears , are strong and have high morale . 
they are fearless and display a desire for decapitating the heads of their enemies . 
they attack by the hundreds and the next strike will come soon . 
the warriors prepare their defenses and pray to their gods . 
they are ready to sacrifice their lives . 
 " this is a good way to die , " says one of the fallen warriors . 
despite the larger-than-life battle sequences , i was unmoved by the entire experience . 
at many points , i was even confused . 
for example , somewhere in the middle of the film , a sub-plot creeps up involving the prince of the threatened land . 
he seems to have an agenda to elevate himself to greater power during this crisis . 
however , the sub-plot never fully materializes , and we are left scratching our heads as to the purpose of its inclusion . 
there are other questions that i had , but the real problem was that the story ( little of it that there was ) offered no characters to love or hate . 
the leader of the viking warriors had the most charisma . 
however , banderas's role is completely underwritten and it is unclear why being the 13th warrior makes him so special . 
an entire rewrite of the ahmed character is in order . 
also , much of the action takes place during torrential downpours or at night , which made battles very difficult to follow . 
i would have preferred more time looking at the viking culture and how their beliefs shaped their decision to do battle against the enemy . 
as it stands , the film manages more confusion than intensity . 
it would make thor cry . 
apparently , when crap calls , jim carrey answers . 
here he is , mugging it up in countless unfunny ways for the fifth time , his second go-around in the role of pet detective ace ventura . 
that means more talking ass-cracks , penis jokes and cries of " al-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-lrighty then . " 
it all adds up to a sequel that makes the original resemble schindler's list in terms of dramatic merit , or lack of . 
granted , there are a few laughs amid the constant barrage of pre-school humor , but anyone who appreciates good comedy will bang their head against the wall ten times for every minor chuckle . 
it's a painful experience for anyone with a brain . 
ace is distraught after accidentally dropping a racoon into a canyon ( in a parody of the opening scene of sylvester stallone's cliffhanger , jim carrey being the only person who can make stallone look like a college professor in terms of intellect , or lack of ) and decides to retire to the mountains of tibet to gain a higher level of consciousness ( or , in his case , a level of consciousness ) . 
but he is pulled out of retirement to the tune of $20 , 000 to retrieve a sacred white bat for an african tribe . 
why africa ? 
so carrey can disguise himself nude inside a fake rhino and later climb out the rear end as a tourist family watches ( " look , the rhino's about to give birth ! " ) . 
if that seems like hee-haw humor to you , by all means , see the movie . 
if not , claim your place in human civilization with the rest of us . 
obviously , there are quite a few nonmembers of civilization who made this movie , like the first ace ventura film ( i use the word " film " only because it was filmed , not because there's any level of artistic merit . ) , a huge success . 
in fact , carrey only has a career because of the decline of intelligence in our culture . 
you may say to me , " but andrew , look at jerry lewis . 
he was born with a negative i . q . 
and look how popular he was thirty years ago . " 
maybe , but i still say jerry lewis is a notch or two up on the comedic ladder because he never actually did an impression in a movie of a rabid bulldog biting off a man's testicles . . . 
lewis at least had the dignity to save that performance for when company came over . 
one of my favorite songs by the stranglers includes the lyric , " you'd better watch out for the skin deep . " 
i'd like to extend the same warning : watch out for skin deep , but whatever you do don't watch skin deep . 
skin deep is a tedious and uneven comedy written and directed by blake edwards . 
john ritter stars as zach , a dried up writer and insatiable womanizer with a big-time drinking problem . 
i never saw edwards' comedy the man who loved women , but i have to wonder whether skin deep is a remake . 
you see , to put it mildly , zach goes to bed with just about each and every woman he meets . 
as the movie opens , zach's wife , alex , catches him with not only his mistress but also his mistress' hairdresser . 
like any sensible wife , alex kicks zach out of the house and divorces him . 
in response , zach goes on a spiritual journey of drinking , womanizing , psychotherapy , and self-discovery . 
if you're turned on by the idea of watching ritter drink , get arrested , have sex , drink , crash his mercedes , have more sex , drink , get arrested again , drink , and sing horrendously at the piano , then skin deep should be right up your alley . 
skin deep makes the fatal mistake of inflicting on us unbelievable and unsympathetic characters . 
zach is a rich , '80s l . a . version of ritter's jack tripper character from " three's company . " 
like jack , zach is clumsy and inept ; he's the type of guy whose bad aim makes him accidently squirt breath freshener into his eye . 
zach is supposed to be charming and charismatic , but i failed to see even one redeeming virtue in him . 
consequently , i never felt the least bit of sympathy or pity for the philandering alcoholic during his moments of crisis . 
in fact , when zach crashes his ex-wife's wedding in a desperate attempt to stop her from remarrying , i actually rooted for her to go through with the ceremony . 
to add insult to injury , edwards gives his large supporting cast nothing but stereotypes with which to work . 
for instance , vincent gardenia's talents are wasted in his role as the fatherly bartender . 
of all the women in the film--and there are many--alyson reed , alone , stands out as zach's wife ; reed brings intelligence and sensitivity to the role . 
because we don't care the slightest bit about anyone in skin deep , the film's few feeble attempts at drama inevitably fail . 
the comedy in skin deep doesn't fare much better . 
most of the jokes are dumb , predictable , and sitcomish . 
about every ten minutes , however , edwards does manage to come up with a good line or a novel sight-gag , the most effective of which involves a pair of " dueling " condoms . 
overall , the laughs in skin deep are just too infrequent and the characters just too shallow for the film to stay afloat . 
my final criticism of the film lies in its glamorous depiction of alcohol and alcoholism . 
zach's excessive drinking is clearly ruining his life , but nevertheless it seems to give him more pleasure than pain . 
zach's drinking binges never have any truly serious or lasting consequences . 
if he crashes his mercedes , he gets a new one . 
if he gets arrested , his lawyer bails him out of jail . 
if his wife leaves him , she will eventually decide to give him a second chance if he'll clean up his act . 
the tone in skin deep is all wrong ; edwards treats a very serious issue far too lightly , making a joke out of a problem that is no joking matter . 
perhaps edwards should have studied dudley moore in arthur or , better yet , michael keaton in clean and sober before making skin deep . 
this movie about two dysfunctional families never really gets off the ground , despite some good performances from a basically competent cast . 
eddie ( sean penn ) and maureen ( robin wright penn ) are a not-so-happily married couple down on their luck . 
living in rented rooms in the seedier part of an unnamed city , they spend what little income they have at the local bar , owned by shorty ( stanton ) , eddie's best friend , and his wife georgie ( mazar ) . 
maureen and eddie share an odd relationship marked by eddie's frequent disappearances . 
on his return , he promises her the world and professes his undying love . 
their manic reunions all too soon lead to new lows , as eddie disappears again . 
like a junky craving the next high , maureen suffers through the lows to reach the next high . 
their relationship is further complicated by maureen's pregnancy . 
she wants the baby and the father , but deep down seems to sense the inevitability of losing the latter . 
during one of eddie's absences , maureen is attacked by kiefer , her neighbor , who gets her drunk ( with her cooperation ) and then insists on intimacy . 
she leaves badly bruised and in fear of what eddie might do -- not to her , but to kiefer . 
she lies about what happens to ensure that no harm will come to eddie as the result of his inevitable rage . 
he lashes out as she expects , and ends up in an institution for what he believes to be 3 months -- but in reality is 10 years . 
during this decade , maureen divorces eddie and remarries a more solid and reliable individual , joey ( travolta , in a small role ) . 
her life falls apart again when eddie is released from the institution and comes to find her . 
joey insists on bringing eddie into his home and making his wife choose between her husband ( and father of two children ) and stability ( joey makes a good living , drives a cadillac , and they live in a large house in the suburbs ) and the love of her previous life . 
she chooses her past , and sacrifices not only her new life but her old ( by giving up her and eddie's daughter to joey ) . 
but the eddie that she knew is gone , replaced by a mere shell of the man he was . 
maureen is herself a mere shell , more an automaton than a woman -- as if she had gone through whatever therapy and treatment eddie was given along with him . 
perhaps these two really do need each other and can find happiness ( or maybe the lack of sadness ) together , but the movie's denouement was not convincing . 
michael richards leaves his spot as kramer on the infamous seinfeld tv sitcom for a stint as a lanky , goofy best friend to jeff daniels' lawyer character in this ill-fated , and unfunny , " comedy " . 
plot : richard the actor ( richards ) has to take the place of charles the lawyer ( daniels ) in a real court case , after charles is left unintelligible from a night of heavy drinking at his bachelor party . 
the film follows the antics of the two men as they try to get away with their tomfoolery . 
critique : this movie did not make me laugh once . 
perhaps it was because i was tired when i watched it . 
perhaps . 
perhaps it was because i had seen richards perform most of the same schtick a thousand times on seinfeld . 
perhaps . 
perhaps it was because the movie just wasn't funny . 
absolutely . 
the lack of humour wasn't the only issue that i had with this film either . 
the movie attempts to weave a couple of love stories through its vision , but unfortunately , they are also lacking in conviction , believability and credibility . 
they are contrived and appear to be placed into the story for convenience sake . 
the actors were all adequate enough in their roles , but the problem didn't lie in the acting . 
i wish i could find one good reason for you to see this waste of time , but i can't . 
unless of course , you need something playing on your tv set while you waste some time around the house . 
overall , this movie stinks . 
on the good side , charlize theron is darn cute , and the movie is no longer then 90 minutes . 
on the bad side , this movie is not funny , interesting or enjoyable in any which way possible . 
a person wouldn't even enjoy his nachos while watching this emptiness . 
please skip it . 
little known facts : jonathan lynn earned a degree in law from cambridge before becoming an actor/director . 
charlize theron grew up on a farm outside benoni , south africa , as the only child . 
at the age of 18 her mother made her go to los angeles to try a career in the movie industry . 
she came to la without knowing anyone in the city but after two weeks when she was standing in line on hollywood boulevard an agent gave her his card . 
after eight months in la she got her first part . 
since then she has taken acting lessons and her career has skyrocketed , specifically in devil's advocate ( 8/10 ) . 
charlize was narrowly beat out by elizabeth berkley for the lead role in the " movie " , showgirls . 
she was quoted as saying " it was like i had some guardian angel . " 
jackie chan kicks his way into van damme territory with twin dragons , an embarrassingly bland action comedy of mistaken identities . 
chan plays separated-at-births boomer and john ma , whose drastically different paths . . . 
aw , forget the plot description , it's not even worth the space . 
but let's face it . 
no one goes to jackie chan movies for the plot anyway . 
the scenes where nothing happens in chan's films have always been little more than glue thriftily spread to hold the action sequences together . 
in the case of twin dragons , however , the tiresome plot-driving scenes fritter away so much of the movie that you almost want to shout ( at the risk of demeaning the artistic value of cinema ) , " get to the good part already ! " 
most of the film is devoted to showing the brothers' efforts to hide the other's existence from their own acquaintances . 
why it is necessary to do this is not satisfactorily explained , but neither are a lot of aspects of the plot . 
the twins' love interests , demure club-singer barbara ( chan-film regular maggie cheung ) and lusty bride-hopeful tammy ( nina li chi ) , get disoriented in all the brouhaha , yet strangely seem not to mind that they are not sure which brother they are in love with . 
the scenes describing the boys' bumbling antics get stretched so thin we stop caring who chan is supposed to be in any given shot ( in several shots , in fact , even the make-up and hair people seem to forget which brother is which . ) . 
even chan's so-corny-it's-funny humor is off-kilter in this outing . 
some of the gags are so carefully innocuous they're annoying . 
a case in point : whenever anyone sees the brothers together , they fall to the ground in a dead faint . 
are we laughing yet ? 
as usual , the final showdown is the film's jewel , a tour de force display of chan' s agility and grace . 
never mind that it's not clear how the brothers end up fighting suited bad guys inside an automobile crash-testing facility . 
it's all good fun , but too little too late . 
perhaps chan's next movie should just be a collection of the last fight sequences of all of his movies . 
they could call it jackie chan's the final fight scenes , and everybody would go home happy . 
reviewed april 14 , 1999 at loews theaters white marsh , white marsh , md . 
the general's daughter will probably be the cleverest stupid film we'll see this year -- or perhaps the stupidest clever film . 
it's confusing to a critic when so much knuckleheaded plotting and ostentatious direction shares the screen with so much snappy dialogue and crisp character interaction . 
that , however , is what happens when legendary screenwriter william goldman takes a pass at an otherwise brutally predictable conspiracy thriller . 
the punched-up punch lines are ever on the verge of convincing you the general's daughter has a brain in its head , even as the remaining 75% of the narrative punches you in the face with its lack of common sense . 
our hero is warrant officer paul brenner , a brash investigator for the u . s . army's criminal investigation division . 
his latest case is the murder of captain elisabeth campbell ( leslie stefanson ) at a georgia base , the victim found tied to the ground after an apparent sexual assault and strangulation . 
complicating the case is the fact that capt . campbell is the daughter of general joe campbell ( james cromwell ) , a war hero and potential vice-presidential nominee . 
general campbell wants to keep the case out of the press , which gives brenner only the 36 hours before the fbi steps in . 
teamed with rape investigator sarah sunhill ( madeleine stowe ) -- who , coincidentally enough , once had a romantic relationship with brenner -- brenner begins uncovering dark secrets from the late captain's past that make the case ever more sordid . 
if only the sordidness were the worst of the general's daughter's problems . 
scenes of sexual degredation do linger much longer than necessary , their negligible dramatic value overwhelmed by filtered-light sleaze . 
director simon west likely thinks he's covered himself by juxtaposing these images of violence with sweet flowers , but all he does is prove himself dependent on visual cliches , which is the film's fatal flaw . 
it's a trend he continues for two hours , taking the story's few virtues and slapping a coat of moron-proof obviousness over them . 
characters who may ( wink wink ) turn out to be villains are photographed in ominous shadow ; cutaway inserts of the captain campbell's still-living face after the corpse is uncovered insure against five-minute attention spans . 
west just can't help himself from overdirecting every minute of the general's daughter . 
he even turns a scene of footage shown on cnn into an excuse for slow-fade edits . 
bubbling up from this overcooked stew are enough tasty lines to distract you from its smell . 
the slickest scene finds brenner squaring off with captain campbell's mentor , a psychological warfare expert named moore ( james woods ) . 
there's something invigorating about watching two smart actors playing smart characters firing honesty at one another . 
indeed , travolta gets to sink his teeth into dozens of choice lines based on his delight at provoking authority figures ( to the local sheriff of the georgia county : " shouldn't you be out night-sticking the colored folk ? " ) . 
even the lame device of brenner and sunhill's sexual history provides a few winning zingers . 
goldman's dialogue can serve up a bigger laugh than you'll find in most so-called comedies . 
dialogue , unfortunately , just isn't enough to make a quality script . 
it's difficult to take a movie about a criminal investigation seriously when the investigators are both too stupid to solve it sooner ( an idiotic inability to recognize the nature of the crime scene ) and too lucky for it to last any longer ( not one but two occasions where brenner catches a vital piece of evidence out of the corner of his eye ) . 
by the time the general's daughter wanders towards its over-wrought , psycho-in-the-rain finale , west's heavy hand has obliterated most of what made the film occasionally fun . 
it's silly and pretentious film-making , but at least it provides a giggle or five . 
goldman should tear the 15 decent pages out of this script and turn them into a stand-up routine . 
cradle will rock is the latest effort from director/actor tim robbins . 
while he may have had an oscar worthy film back in 1995 ( dead man walking ) , he gets a little overconfident and sloppy here . 
the story is confusing , and filled with many subplots , so i'll try my best and explain it as simply as possible . 
the film is based on a " mostly " true story about a federal theater in the 1930s , that produced a play ( the cradle will rock ) that apparently was offensive to some , so the government shuts it down . 
it's during the time of the depression , and all this theater wants to do is entertain and cheer up those who do not have jobs , or are poor . 
between this conflict lies what seems like 10 subplots , about those who work in theater , or those associated . 
also along the way are some other messages mashed together to create an even more overwhelming experience . 
tim robbin's just keeps piling on political views , and characters , that we just give up on the film , or in some cases walk out . 
for robbin's it may be a nice achievement , but to me it seemed more like a friendly get together with slightly more sophisticated dialogue , and fancy outfits . 
i thought the main reason for seeing the film would be for the outstanding cast , unfortunately are all uninteresting , except for a few . 
let me recap what each important character does , so please bear with me ( it's the least you can do , especially if you were considering seeing this ) . 
i'll begin with those involved with the play . 
there's orson welles ( angus macfadyen ) who of course is the director of the play , the producer john houseman ( cary elwes ) , marc blitzstein ( hank azaria ) the writer of the play , emily watson , a woman who gets her break by playing the main part in cradle will rock . 
outside the play there's the : ventriloquist ( bill murray ) who wants a relationship with a federal theater clerk ( joan cusack ) , another subplot involving a painter diego rivera ( ruben blades ) who's unhappy that his painting is too be destroyed by nelson rockefeller because he feels it to be an outrage ( john cusack ) . 
there's a few other actresses and actors who have their own stories ( susan sarandon , philip baker hall too name a few ) but those that i mentioned , were the most significant to the story . 
anyway , most of these talented hollywood stars were completely wasted , except for emily watson , who does another great job , and one of my personal favorite actors john cusack , who always delivers through thick and thin . 
now although most of the film was weak to say the least , there were some nice moments and some involving subjects , but all this is overblown . 
sure the free speech segment was a nice feature , but not when it becomes repetitive . 
the whole film is like this , and it's basically nothing but a headache . 
on the brighter side , tim robbin's direction was masterful . 
his camera direction seemed reminiscent to the works of paul thomas anderson's latest magnolia , only smoother in my opinion , but even that can't make a movie that much better . 
although it has it's moments ( not many of them , but they're there ) , cradle will rock stays true to it's title , because the cradle rocked too far and tipped over . 
disillusioned and trying to find the spice of life , richard ( leonardo dicaprio ) sets off for thailand . 
there he a meets crazed man by the name of daffy ( robert carlyle ) who gives him a map to a beach , a secret utopia , then commits suicide . 
richard sets off for this beach with his neighbors from this hotel , ? tienne ( guillaume canet ) and fran ? oise ( virginie ledoyen ) . 
once they get there the three discover a secret society existing on this beach , there richard falls for fran ? oise . 
this covers about half to two thirds of the movie and aside from the romantic element , which is solely a creation of hollywood , seems to hold to the original novel . 
the cinematography and general beauty of this part of the movie is breathtaking . 
i don't think anyone can argue that this movie is visually stunning . 
but that is were many things go wrong , darius khondji has totally outdone himself in doing the cinematography . 
though the script and the interpretation of the novel are quite lacking . 
the plot of the movie moves along at a decent pace for about half of the movie or there abouts . 
this is where the movie has some great potential , then the three travelers get the island and there is a turn for the better , yes folks i said better . 
now up to about two thirds of this movie its actually pretty good , nothing spectacular aside from the cinematography but it still has promise . 
this is where things start to degenerate to something that becomes almost un-watchable . 
there is even a 'video game' style sequence that borders on the disgusting , it doesn't make sense for the movie and just looks dumb in my opinion ( and i am hoping many other peoples ) . 
i am hoping that in my little rant i've made it abundantly clear that the movie is lacking quite seriously in plot and uneven pacing , so if you go see it and you don't like it because of this don't blame me . 
the character development was not up to par either ; i found the character of richard to be nothing more than a spoiled child . 
although there is a feeble attempt to make this whole story profound it fails and richard ( leo's character ) comes off as a wannabe philosopher . 
the character seems to be underdeveloped from the get go and seems to just do things for no apparent reason , granted some people are like this ( myself included ) but i nor anyone i know that is fairly random would ever do things of the sort this character does . 
the next point is that some of the really interesting characters are simply not developed enough . 
richard is obviously obsessed by fran ? oise at the early stages of the story , yet there is actually very little development along this story line . 
this i am sure contributes to the movie's lack of core plot and being unfocused . 
now , i shall move onto something a little better about the movie ( for all you cynics out there the movie did have a few good things about it ) . 
the cast and acting was passable at the very least , and i think that leonardo dicaprio actually did pretty well in the role of richard . 
mind you i think the rest of the cast that had some which had reasonably sized roles did equally well if not better . 
which begs the question why is leonardo paid so much ? 
 ( i think this is a topic all on its own so i won't get into it ) . 
but i like the fact that there was an international cast used , had only and american cast been used i can see this movie being horrible . 
the international flavor added a more global feel to the movie that made it that much more bearable . 
not to mention the movie is set in thailand and a global cast makes more sense . 
when all is said and done i liked the movie for the most part but the gaping inadequacies of the plot are unforgivable . 
i would not recommend this movie to anyone , the fact that i liked it has a lot to do with the cinematography and the sheer beauty of the movie not its plot or story . 
as it is the story tries to be much too philosophical and fails at its attempt . 
if you do end up going to see this movie be forewarned about its shortcomings . 
kate ( jennifer aniston ) is having some problems . 
it appears the twenty-eight year old is not happy with her slow progression up the company ladder , and her love life apparently leaves something to be desired . 
she learns that her problems are related , as the owner of her advertising agency , mr . mercer ( kevin dunn ) , explains to her that her single status does not bode well with the company . 
her freedom would make her more likely to leave the company , taking clients with her . 
a solution presents itself in nick ( jay mohr ) , a wedding videographer who kate meets through a coincidence and gets photographed with . 
kate's boss , darcy ( illeana douglas ) , uses the photograph to fabricate a wedding engagement between kate and nick . 
kate is at first repulsed by the idea , but after getting immediate positive results , she pursues it . 
her first task is to convince nick to go along with her plan . 
the actual plan consists of nick pretending to be her fianc ? . 
at a dinner with kate's bosses he will provoke a fight and they will break up . 
she meets nick to propose the plan . 
he accepts . 
kate's new status brings unexpected results in other areas . 
the office bad boy , sam ( kevin bacon ) , who wouldn't give kate the time of day , now does . 
now that she is engaged , he pursues an affair with her , as doing so would destroy her good girl image , hence sam's sudden interest . 
things start to fall apart for kate , as it becomes apparent that nick really likes her , and does not wish to break up with her . 
after some provoking nick does oblige , but problems continue for kate . 
it appears sam is no longer interested now that she is available . 
or maybe kate does like nick , but " reconciliation " will force her to admit her lies to her employer . 
adding to her mess is the constant prying of her mother ( olympia dukakis ) , who wants her to get married and settle down . 
there is a scene in this movie where jennifer aniston is ( from the waist up ) only wearing a bra . 
it made me chuckle because it is the only time in the movie when she actually wears one . 
there is enough cleavage in this movie to satisfy russ meyer . 
it's like the director said 'well , we know the story is formulaic and the performances aren't that great so , what the heck , let's show jennifer's assets as often and as uncovered as humanly possible to keep the pg rating . " 
quite frankly it's insulting . 
i don't think aniston is a competent enough actress to carry a movie . 
she did a decent enough job in ed burns' " she's the one " because it was a smaller and supporting role , and she just doesn't deliver the goods effectively in this movie . 
her performance was not convincing . 
unfortunately , as far as romantic comedies go , this movie adds nothing new to the standard formula for these types of movies . 
the film is similar to " my best friends wedding " in a sense that the leading female character is actually quite vindictive and due her actions , gets no sympathy from me when things go awry . 
i didn't care for how quickly kate puts down nick's profession by explaining that videotaping weddings wasn't glamorous enough for her co-workers . 
at least " my best friends wedding " changed the formula a bit and had a somewhat surprise ending . 
no such luck with " picture perfect " . 
every plot occurrence can be spotted a mile away , including a couple that really made no sense . 
after everything kate had done to prove her loyalty to her company , why would she blindly throw it all away when she should have made sure that nick would even talk to her first , let alone consider a relationship ? 
was quitting her job a prerequisite to making amends with nick ? 
throw in the fact that i don't think nick and kate spent enough time together to even warrant that rash of a decision . 
i believe that kate liked him , but liked him so intensely that she was willing to throw her career away ? 
i doubt it . 
and what of the ending scene at a wedding where the entire congregation feels it necessary to stop everything and stare at the couple ? 
are mass groups of people simultaneously that interested in total strangers ? 
well , i guess of the congregation consists of movie extras and the strangers are the movies two lead stars , then that would make sense . 
picture perfect directed by glenn gordon caron 
kate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . jennifer aniston nick . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . jay 
mohr sam . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . kevin 
bacon mercer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . kevin 
dunn darcy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . illeana 
douglas rita . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . olympia 
dukakis 
written by randy turgeon , february 26 , 1998 . 
visit my movie reviews ! 
www . xtdl . com/~canran 
this review contains spoilers , but believe me , i don't say anything you can't guess 10 minutes into the movie . 
i * did * go into this one with high expectations . 
i had been exposed to media reports that this film would signify a departure from the slasher flicks . 
i sort of expected another exorcist or the shining . 
i even put aside my general rule of not seeing this type of film . 
boy , was i wrong ! 
another garbage slasher flick , the only difference being that * this * one has a story ! 
the story , you ask ? 
well , a scumball buys a chinese puzzle from a guy in an arab souk . 
he takes it home , somehow getting it past customs : - ) and starts fiddling with it in his attic . 
lo and behold , after he takes it apart , three demons appear and start taking him apart , but with meat hooks . 
when they're finished , his gizzards are hanging from the ceiling . 
they botch up their cleanup job , however , and manage to leave his heart ( or some gland ; i didn't really recognize the organ ) under a floorboard . 
the guy's brother and his brother's wife appear at the door soon after , and decide to move in . 
they throw away scumball's belongings , and set up house . 
turns out that wife is a bit of a nympho , and screwed around with scumball right before her marriage . 
she starts having some wild hallucinations . 
later , hubby spills some blood on the attic floorboards ( slow-mo special effects of the buckets of blood hitting the ground--all from the tiny cut on his hand ) . 
said blood is eagerly sucked up by scumball's organ . 
the organ grows into a thing that requires yet more blood in order to complete the regeneration into a really ugly thing . 
it establishes mind contact with wife , who agrees to help him get more blood , because she really wants to be screwed again . 
so , she helps him kill three businessmen . 
scumball , at this time , gradually gets his strength back and grows all his organs back . 
problem is , he doesn't have any skin , and even after three or four corpses , still doesn't get any skin . 
he finally gets some , though , but strangely enough , he ends up looking like his brother . 
guess they couldn't get the original actor back . 
who knows . 
scumball ( whose name is frank ) is not a nice guy . 
he describes his torture by the demons fondly , as the " ultimate pleasure and pain , since at that level there is no difference between the two . " 
somehow , i don't see getting torn apart by 90 fish- and meat-hooks a lot of fun . 
this guy is * so * bad ( " how bad * is * he ? " ) , 
 * so * bad that the * rats * cower in a corner in fear . 
for good reason , too ; he crucifies two of them for fun , and carves a third while the nympho's horsing around with hubby . 
anyway . hubby's daughter ( who , if course , is not * wife's * daughter ) starts to suspect something is wrong after she sees wife going into the attic with one of her johns and the ensuing screams . 
the dumb bimbo meets scumball , and is not impressed . 
she manages to escape with the chinese puzzle , and brings out the demons . 
at any rate , the demons are pissed off that they screwed up their cleanup ; they're normally quite meticulous about that type of thing . 
the story boils down to the demons trying to correct their mistake . 
the demons are not , however , the good guys . 
the dumb bimbo's the good guy . 
she somehow not only gets them to take care of frank , but also banishes them to hell or oblivion , we're not too sure which . 
not too shabby for someone with single-digit iq . 
this is basically a " bad jinn " story . 
it is an * awful * movie . 
awful acting , bad focus in the photography , many scenes of skin being penetrated by meathooks , which is really unrealistic , and looks like the latex that it is . 
continuity ? 
who cares . 
acting ? 
 * terrible * . 
script ? 
horrible . 
sounds canned . 
unrealistic . 
story is so-so , but the impact is lost long , long before the film ends . 
i do think the * rat * acting was quite good . 
i have never seen rats look afraid . 
they should get nominated for an award . 
really good acting there , the best in the movie . 
 " the envelope for best furry rodent , please . . . " 
a " " rating would be far too generous . 
a " 1/10 " rating ( or -4 in the -4 to +4 rating system ) is far more accurate . 
this movie is so bad that people in the audience were laughing , chortling at the bad acting and crummy dialog . 
i can see this film turning into the next rocky horror picture show . 
people were getting so fed up they were yelling warnings up to the characters on the screen . 
had to have something to do . 
dumb , dumb , dumb movie . 
i was embarrassed that i spent money to see it . 
it goes without saying that i disagree with the other reviews on the board that attempt to review the film for itself . 
lots of slime and red-dyed corn syrup does not constitute " horror , " in my opinion . 
 " have you ever heard the one about a movie so bad that it made a guy run out of the theatre screaming ? " 
obviously the producers at columbia tristar did not think that we suffered enough from the first installment , and so to finish us utterly , they have now released " urban legends : final cut " . 
this is another " scream " -like feature , consisting merely from the recycled materials of rip-offs from the most pointless movies of all time . 
amy ( jennifer morrison ) is a film student who is attending a film school filled with uninspired film students who do not have a clue about what to do . 
but just as she reaches the halfway mark of her final semester at prestigious university's film program -- where each year's best thesis production takes the coveted hitchcock prize , a virtual one-way ticket to hollywood success -- she has a chance encounter with campus security guard reese ( loretta devine ) , whose tale of a series of murders based on urban legends at another university inspires amy to try her hand at a fictional thriller organized along similar lines . 
soon enough , fake -- and real -- blood starts to flow , and amy is being chased around by scary killer , while her cast and crew get slain , one by one . 
is the culprit the original urban legends murderer , just some random psycho , ! 
a member of the faculty , one of her competitors for the hitchcock , or is there something even more stupid going on ? 
this is another one of those tiring , pointless teen slasher flicks : neither scary , funny , or interesting . 
it simply lacks the ability and the story to entertain . 
the body counts and screams continue to grow , as the weak level of intelligence sinks rapidly . 
in fact watching films like that after having watched " scary movie " is impossible keeping a serious face . 
several times i tried to prevent myself from laughing , without succeeding . 
and then i realized that practically the whole theatre was laughing . 
it's the same thing that has been told and told and told over and over again as if it was the revelation of the century . 
how many times must we tolerate the same clich ? s that have haunted the slasher genre since its birth ? 
it has been so many films about masked killers that most of us have developed an allergy for them . 
they are the most stupid , meaningless , predictable and soulless films in existence . 
however , director john ottman manages to make " urban legends : final cut " into one of the worst achievements of this godforsaken genre . 
what was done with a sense of redemption for past failures and irony in " scream " , ottman takes seriously . 
for that reason alone , it is worth a look , just to realize how bad a movie can be . 
it's tough to find comparisons for such an achievement , and we have to dig in ancient history to find a movie that would match its intellect . 
even movies like " lost in space " and " mission to mars " seem spectacular in its shadow . 
we have not seen such waste of t ! 
ime and resources since " showgirls " ( 1995 ) . 
no matter how hard i tried to find positive elements in this so called production , i came up with nothing , except the way the killer was dressed . 
here i feel that i have to compliment the costume designers trysha bakker and marie-sylvie deveu , that have wisely replaced the well known scream-mask with a very elegant fencing mask . 
jennifer morrison ( " stir of echoes " ) is all right , and the other actors' best achievement is keeping a straight face when pronouncing the words from the script . 
in fact the only thing that is terrifying about this film ( with the exception of its screenplay ) is its portray of film schools . 
if these graduates will be the directors of the future , then hollywood's golden days are over . 
rumors are already spreading through the internet that columbia tristar is already developing a third installment . 
let's just hope and pray that it's just an urban legend . 
 " we are grateful that we have the songs of grace chan to comfort us . " 
starring lee kang-sheng , yang kuei-mei directed by tsai ming-liang written by tsai and yang ping-ying cinematography by liao peng-jung 
taiwan , 24/12/99 . 
the millenium approaches . 
an incessant downpour batters an unnamed city . 
sectors of the city are being sealed , quarantined due to the onset of a mysterious virus . 
the virus causes people to act like insects : they crawl about on all fours , hide from bright lights , huddle in damp corners . 
the water supply to the quarantined zones will be cut off in a week's time . 
residents are advised to evacuate the area , asap . 
this premise--kafka by way of cronenberg--is the background for the hole , which could have been a great movie , but , sadly , ends up as a waste of good ideas . 
the quick sketch above suggests a dark , absurd , hallucinatory near-future parable of life in the late 20th century ; in execution , however , it is nothing like that . 
the virus , the evacuation , the visual possiblities of the deluge : these are all relegated to the background . 
instead , the hole focuses on the lives--for want of a better word--of a man ( lee kang-sheng ) and a woman ( yang kuei-mei ) who live in the same apartment building , and who have no personalities . 
the entire movie taks place in settings that are uniformly ugly and sterile : the charmless rooms and corridors of a post-industrial apartment complex , photographed to look as dim and dingy as possible . 
it's a vivid setting , but an unappealing one , especially with the monotonous hiss of falling rain and the gurgle of drainage pipes in the background . 
the man lives in the apartment directly above the woman's . 
one day , a repairman investigating a leak leaves a small hole in the floor of the man's living room , opening into the ceiling of the woman's living room . 
this hole--symbol of the solitary opening in the character's lonely , compartmented lives--allows them to interact in unusual ( and mostly non-verbal ) ways . 
example : the man , suffering from the onset of the virus ( or so i assume--everything is obscure in this movie ) vomits through the hole . 
the woman , wandering around in the dark , accidentally puts her hand on his vomit , and then cleans it up . 
this is what passes for meaningful communication . 
and they say romance is dead . 
much of the film does not even focus on their interactions , such as they are . 
there is almost no dialogue and we learn next to nothing about these people . 
they are ciphers . 
instead , we are treated to long takes in which we witness their miserable lives ; we watch , for instance , as the woman boils some water , pours it onto some noodles , then eats the noodles . 
 ( this is as fascinating as it sounds . ) 
offered as counterpoint--or perhaps relief--to these dreary sequences are a series of musical numbers , fantasies in which the woman lip-synchs to pop songs by grace chan ( popular , so i'm told , in 1950s' china ) . 
she prances around in grimy hallways and grungy stairwells , incronguously lit by cheerfully bright spotlights . 
sometimes , in these fantasies , she is joined by the man . 
these scenes are presumably intended to be bright and fanciful , sharply contrasting the dreariness of reality , but they fail . 
when the man and the woman dance , it seems half-hearted and listless . 
astaire and rogers this is not . 
even in imagination , these people are numb , weary , boring . 
the hole is part of the 'collection 2000' series , a group of films commissioned by french tv station la sept arte on the subject of the millenium . 
others include canada's last night , brazil's midnight , and american hal hartley's the book of life . 
the book of life is the only other one that i have seen , and it is infinitely superior to the taiwanese entry . 
witty , energetic , humane , it makes the the hole seem ( ahem ) empty . 
american movies with nothing to say try to disguise their lack of content with flashy movements , quick cuts , superficial emotions . 
foreign movies with nothing to say do what the hole does : they point the camera at something of minimal interest for unbelievably long periods of time , and call it art . 
the hole is self-evidently a film about alienation , and perhaps director tsai ming-liang wants the audience to share in his characters' alienation . 
if so , he succeeds . 
perhaps it is a challenge : he dares us to enjoy this movie , despite his best attempts to ensure that we don't . 
if it was a challenge , i wasn't up for it . 
what happens when you put martin lawrence in a fat suit in real life ? 
you get martin lawrence in a coma ( the comedian thought he was getting fat , so he put on numerous layers of heavy clothing and went jogging in 100 degree heat , ending up in a coma ) . 
so what happens when you put martin lawrence in a fat suit in the movies ? 
you get an audience in a coma . 
in big momma's house , lawrence plays a fbi agent who's a master of disguises . 
when a naughty , naughty man escapes from jail and seeks out his former girlfriend ( the very sexy nia long . . . 
the only thing worth looking at in this movie ) , she flees to georgia to stay with her rather large southern aunt " big momma " ( ella mitchell ) . 
the fbi follows her in order to recover the large sum of money stolen in the bank robbery that sent the naughty man to jail . 
however , big momma is called away on an emergency . 
sensing that they could lose their only chance to capture the criminal , lawrence goes undercover as big momma . 
and let the comedy begin ! 
big momma's house is the definition of a " gimmick " movie if there ever was one . 
the plot can basically be summed up as " martin lawrence dresses up as a fat woman " . . . 
and even that description is too wordy . 
you can just see this script plotted out on a chalkboard with martin lawrence/fat woman in the middle of the board with a big circle around it , and all sorts of clich ? d , " humorous " situations pointing to it . 
fat woman plays basketball ! 
fat woman takes a dump ! 
fat woman kung fu ! 
well they left one off the board . . . 
movie critic slips into coma ! 
paul giamatti ( private parts , the negotiator ) plays lawrence's partner and as much as i enjoy his work , even he can't inject life into this lifeless comedy . 
hell , the greatest performers on the planet couldn't make this material work . . . 
it's just that awful . 
blatantly borrowing elements from 1993's " like water for chocolate " and 1991's " the butcher's wife , " " simply irresistible " attempts to be a whimsical romantic comedy but , more often than not , comes off as laughable , leaving you to wonder why rising star sarah michelle gellar ( t . v . 's " buffy , the vampire slayer " ) would choose such an obviously inept film project to waste her time on . 
things get off to a bad start right from the onset as amanda ( sarah michelle gellar ) , a young woman who runs her late family's struggling new york restaurant , runs into a mystery man who forces a bushel of crabs on her and then vansihes into thin air . 
while out shopping , she also meets tom ( sean patrick flanery ) , a charming , handsome man , who happens to be planning a ritzy restaurant for the department store he works for , and later when he decides to drop by her dive , called southern cross , for lunch , she somehow makes a delicious crab dish for him , even though she is known to not be a very good chef . 
suddenly , amanda finds her restaurant , on the edge of foreclosure , rejuvenate to life as customer begin to swarm for her food , which strangely causes everyone immediate jubilation when it hits their mouths . 
are amanda and tom destined to be together ? 
and is it not just because of the magical food , but because they really , truly like each other ? 
and what exactly is going on with the food she is making ? 
does it have anything to do with that pesky crab she got that sits on the shelf in the kitchen somehow assisting her in her food preparation ? 
 " simply irresistible " is a ridiculous and just plain goofy romantic fantasy that's as flimsy as a slice of bologna . 
it takes one joke---that people who eat the food are taken aback by it in most unusual ways---and recycles it over and over again until the film has reached an appropriate running time of 95 minutes . 
add in a music montage every ten minutes ( these are actually the best scenes in the movie , which certainly tells you something about the film itself ) , and what you've got is an utterly empty , if not necessarily boring , excursion . 
the cast of " simply irresistible " is fairly good , but it is the supporting characters who are the most interesting . 
patricia clarkson ( 1998's " high art , " in which she played a drugged-out lesbian ) is a standout as tom's colleague , and is thankfully given a few funny lines of dialogue . 
also of note is larry gilliard jr . , as amanda's cooking assistant and buddy , who is allowed to create a seemingly full character out of only a handful of scenes . 
of the main stars , sarah michelle gellar is fine , but really does often look like she's struggling through the unmistakably clumsy material , and if sean patrick flanery plans on keeping a film career in the future , he has certainly got to pick better projects than this . 
the bottom line is that " simply irresistible " is the exact opposite of its deprophesized title , and when the movie got to the point where the characters began to float in mid-air ( an unamusing plot device that was repeated in the stupid last scene ) , my mind checked out from the characters and the romance . 
when i think about it in hindsight , i should have checked out in the very first scene , where the point of the action was for gellar to crawl under tables looking for a runaway mechanical crab . 
now , that certainly is what i'd call magical ! 
i wont even pretend that i have seen the other 3 alien films . 
i saw glimpses of alien and aliens and fragments of alien 3 , but i have by no means actually sat down and watched any of them . 
so take my opinion from an unbiased and impartial perspective : alien resurrection is not worth the large bag of lollies i was munching into after a hard days work . 
i didnt just dislike it so much because the plot was awful ; most of the acting was very average or the special effects got tiresome after 5 minutes of painful viewing  but also the fact that every tedious ingredient thrown in attempts to give this pointless dribble some meaning . 
sigourney weaver , whos role in alien earned her an academy award nomination , plays the character of ripley ,  who died fighting against extraterrestrial scum in alien 3 . 200 years later , scientists use a sample of blood found at the site of her death to recreate ripley - including the alien that was stuck inside her . 
in no time they remove the alien from her body and separate the two ; yet ripley is now not completely human , possessing strange amounts of strength and being able to withhold greater pain than a normal being . 
im sure someone can explain exactly why this is so , but for now well just ignore it and move on . 
why , you ask , would ripley and the alien inside her be recreated ? 
well , the smart little lab researchers believed that they would be able to discover many advancements in science from studying the alien creature . 
these were the same people who said they could control the alien and that their was no danger in their research . 
they ( yawn ) were wrong . 
it doesnt take a genius to figure out that the rest of the film is a continuous cat and mouse chase between the humans who die off one by one and the aliens who open their mouths on every possible occasion to show off their frightfully scary un-flossed teeth . 
theres a little saying that goes something like this : if youre going to make a bad film , do it well .  
i have seen plenty of disappointing and underachieving movies , but they are not the ones that really bother me . 
alien resurrection , a good example of a film that really gets up my nose , is not so much a discouraging experience but an off putting one . 
there is no way to describe why the australian ma rating was given to this film other than unnecessary and repulsive gore , which attempts to distract us from the wandering-but-not-going-anywhere plot . 
in one scene my stomach churned as i witnessed a mawkish looking alien put its hand on a characters head and literally ripped most of his face off . 
another one featured ripley sticking a knife through her hand just to impress someone she was talking to . 
fair enough if it were in a horror film or even if it bared any significance to the story , but this is unfortunately not the case , and this sort of bizarre gore is inexcusable . 
if you think im struggling to find one good aspect about the film , then you thought right . 
one exciting scene is a credit ( and the only part remotely worth seeing ) to the film , in which an alien chases two men ( one a cripple ) up a tall ladder with interesting results . 
but of course after that thrilling scene alien resurrection had no problem in returning to its pathetically low standard , and ends up crashing into the shores of movie dullness more often than japanese kamikaze jet fighters fall off their skis . 
so in a film where the one liners come as bad as earth man , what a shit hole and the primary means for one mans strategic attack is to bounce bullets off walls to hit an opponent , its no wonder why alien : resurrection turned out to be as off putting and clumsy as it is . 
oh , and in case youre wondering about my bag of lollies  the less i enjoy a film , the more i eat . 
so all the lollies were gone in 15 minutes ; but however empty the bag turned out to be , it was still a long way ahead of the movie 
synopsis : lifelong friends rafe ( affleck ) and danny ( hartnett ) join the us air force and are stationed at pearl harbor , hawaii . 
rafe goes to england to fight alongside british pilots and is seemingly killed in action . 
danny falls in love with rafe's girlfriend , evelyn ( beckinsale ) , but rafe survives and returns to confront his former friend . 
meanwhile , the japanese sneak attack is imminent . . . 
review : " pearl harbor " is a perfect example of movies as product rather than as art . 
it is little more than a crassly-calculated attempt to woo the masses , enticing them with big stars , big effects , and a big setting -- but no heart . 
it is difficult to criticise the actors , because they do everything the movie demands of them . 
sadly , this amounts to barely more than reciting dialogue of such sheer banality that it makes one eager to see the script randall wallace wrote with his right hand at the same time as he was writing " pearl harbor " with his left . 
the plot here is pure cliche , and the wartime setting simply a convenient backdrop . 
there is no genuine exploration of what pearl harbor meant to the united states , and no insight into its vital role in inciting that country to join world war ii . 
instead , there is just an assembly-line love triangle , some empty patriotic rhetoric , and a laughable attempt to placate japanese viewers via the inclusion of some reticent imperial commanders ( when one intones , " i fear all we have done is to awaken a sleeping giant " , i nearly fell out of my seat ) . 
to the movie's credit , it does include a fantastic portrayal of the attack itself , an exciting and dizzying hour which plunges viewers into the war . 
if only the remaining two hours had been crafted with such skill , perhaps this memorial day non-event would have been worth watching . 
this is a film that i was inclined to like at the outset : the two main characters had been involved with the fine television drama st . 
elsewhere for several years , and i had understood that the director/screenwriter had written for the show on occasion also . 
i am sorry to report that the results were not up to my expectations , nor were they satisfactory . 
if i had to list a reason why . . . . 
but that would be getting ahead of myself ; besides , it's not immediately clear , as there are so many problems with the film . 
adam arkin plays a grade-school teacher who is sardonic , cynical , and somewhat abrasive , but a good teacher . 
he spends his lunches playing basketball by himself on a nearby court . 
one day , he meets a drifter ( david morse , who plays jack morrison on st . 
elsewhere ) in the park , and inveigles him in a game of one-on-one basketball . 
morse turns out to be good , and a friendship slowly develops between the two , as their respective professions progress on the screen--arkin's teaching , and morse's selling of paper flowers to passing motorists . 
so far , my major complaint would be the lack of dialogue , and the constant intrusion of the musical soundtrack . 
good music to be sure , but it doesn't replace the dialogue for setting the mood or telling the story--it makes the film somewhat minimalistic , a technique i rarely admire . 
suddenly their friendship is interrupted by morse's introduction to a fellow teacher of arkin's , a woman arkin has long admired from afar , but it too reticent to approach . 
it appears that she begins to admire morse ( who enjoys here attentions , but isn't sure what to do about it--she doesn't realize that he is a drifter , and knows nothing about his past ) , and this causes friction between arkin and almost everyone else . 
until then , i had only a vague dissatisfaction with the film . 
the conclusion is where it begins to evolve into a full-fledged failure . 
the woman , at least to me , appeared to be fairly shallow ; i didn't realize how shallow until her final scene with arkin , where she reveals that she has been trying to make arkin jealous by her attentions to morse . 
somehow , this is made to appear as if it is arkin's fault , and it is left with him feeling somehow victorious that he's gotten such a find of girlfriend . 
frankly , dropping her on the spot would have seemed the most civilized action arkin could make ; punching her in the mouth not the least . 
after this , the childish confrontation between morse and arkin at the end seems almost natural . 
if i had to summarize a major gripe , it's that this is a story spread too thin , that creates semi-likable characters at the outset , and then suddenly jerks them into being 16-year-olds at the last moment . 
it might be true-to-life with some people ; but that doesn't mean * i * have to like it . 
i don't . 
 . 
avoid . 
i love movies . 
i really do . 
every time i watch great movies like goodfellas ( 1990 ) or raiders of the lost ark ( 1981 ) , a tear comes to my eye due to the awesome talent , skill and entertainment that is on display . 
even lower grade films such as the naked gun 33 1/3 ( 1994 ) or ghostbusters ii ( 1988 ) while not exactly brilliantly well made , are certainly not a waste of celluloid and present entertainment value . 
then there's my favourite martian , the exact opposite of what a movie should be : a hurried , poorly written and acted movie with one goal , to make money . 
disney , ever since the lion king ( 1994 ) have lost their magic touch , but this dross just shows how far disney have sunk . 
christopher lloyd plays a martian who crash lands in front of t . v reporter's tim o'hara car ( daniels ) , and soon tim finds the martian in his home , trying to recover and fix his spaceship . 
along with his 'zoot' spacesuit , voiced by wayne knight , must fix his spaceship before it explodes , and also try to stop his identity being revealed to the public , firstly by o'hara , but later by rival t . v presenter brace channing ( hurley ) , by calling himself tim's 'uncle martin . ' 
'laughter' is supposed to arise from the 'comical' events , but never does . 
many bad films have good intentions , but my favourite martian doesn't appear to try to provide any entertainment . 
filled to the brim with wham bang special effects , my favourite martian offers little more than some nice eye candy . 
christopher lloyd mugs his way through the entire movie , i've never seen a man pull a face for 93 minutes until now . 
jeff daniels plays 'staple nice guy' and his role is useless . 
his performance is incredibly lazy , although his paperthin character doesn't deserve more than the performance he gives . 
darryl hannah looks as pretty as ever , but her role is somewhat , erm , limited . 
hurley mistakes 'acting' for 'shouting and looking like a twit' and wins the david wilcock award for 'most irritating , godawful performance in a moving picture . ' 
way to go liz ! 
for the supporting cast , disney manage to assemble every character actor out there , during the film i was going 'he was the guy in . . . ah . . er . . . ' 
before finally giving up and switching off . 
another major setback is the staple 'comedy sidekick . ' 
unfortunately , the writers ( sherri stoner and deanna oliver , if anyone cares ) forget that a comedy sidekick needs to be 'funny . ' 
instead , they deliver zoot , the martians deeply unfunny sidekick . 
although meant to be a manic character no doubt , every line that comes out of his 'neck' is a dud . 
a real dud . 
citizen kane delivers more laughs a minute than his hell spawn piece of polyester . 
even the kids in the audience were insulted by this character : not one child even bothered to smirk . 
it's a nice special effect , though . 
another problems with this comedy are the gags themselves . 
or rather , the lack of them . 
my favourite martian reaches a new level of toilet humour : it goes past the bowl , down the pipe and into the sewer . 
now , toilet humour can be funny , as dumb and dumber ( 1994 ) humorously showed . 
but here , characters farting , belching and almost getting crapped on ( literally ) is not 'amusing . ' 
it's insulting . 
there's one good gag right before the credits , but it appears the guy who wrote that gag tragically died and his unfunny twin continued . 
either that , or they were hoping that easy to please six year olds wouldn't mind the fact that his movie is beaten by men at work in the funny stakes . 
yes , men at work . 
yowza ! 
the fact that a lot of money was pumped into this film , and that they actually got people to agree to be in this film just depresses me even more . 
there are thousands of brilliant films out there that can't get distribution , yet trash like this gets released nation-wide with ease . 
thankfully , as soon as it makes it's money , it will never be seen again , and my favourite martian will end up where the two lead characters do near the end of the movie : down the toilet . 
i looked at the " internet movie database " 's awards section for this film , and found that this was nominated for a golden globe for " best picture ( drama ) . " 
anyone who's seen this film can back me up on this : this is the worst of the " great " disaster films , and that's not really saying a lot for this film . 
 " earthquake " is basically notable because it originally included some theatre thing where the theatre shook when the big earthquake occured . 
on video , it's a bland and slow-moving film which gives us a bunch of different characters ( the disaster film requisite ) , then brings them together in the struggle against the big disaster . 
while this worked in , say , " the towering inferno , " it doesn't here for one single reason : we don't care about any of the characters . 
the film gives us charlton heston ( in one of many crap 70s films he made , including " skyjacked " and that classic , " soylent green " ) as a rich man married to ava gardner , who is having a little affair with a young single mom ( genieveve bujold ) ; a renegade police officer on suspension ( george kennedy , in his least humored performance ) ; in the second weirdest subplot , a motorcycle stuntman ( richard roundtree , right after his " shaft " thing ) whose big stunt is he goes on a little track that goes upside down ( yea , snore ) ; and the weirdest subplot : a military man/bag boy at a grocery store who has a little thing for buxom victoria principal , and eventually gets vengeance on those guys who made fun of his hair ( ! ! ! ) . 
in smaller subplots , there's a pointless bit about people who are flying over l . a . ( the city in the film , by the way ) , one who's playing cards and married to a boring non-acting husband ( you think this one can go nowhere ? 
guess again . he gets interested in the final frames ) ; there's genieveve bujold's moron son , who has a little adventure with wires ; and for some much-needed comedy , there's walter matthau ( billed as walter mutha . . . . 
- the only laugh in the film ) , as a wild drunkard , who's big moment is a dance he does at a critical time . 
as for the actual " earthquake , " it's rather a let-down . 
there's a full hour of character-setups , none of which is interesting , then about 10 minutes of shaking , crumbling , and a bit where a house almost falls on bujold ( narrowly missing ) . 
this film needed that whole theatre-shaking : they needed to wake everybody up because they were so bored . 
there's little suspense following the quake , although this film tries for it . 
there's an adventure in a crumbling high-rise office building , the wires with the kid , and the movement of people who are all injured . 
but none of these are all-too suspenseful . 
the finale with the heston/gardner/bujold love triangle is ended in a basic flip-of-the-coin bit , which brings out a big let-down . 
and there's no real finale . 
even " volcano " ended nicely , and that movie really sucked . 
not only is it hokey , but you don't care about any character . 
who cares if heston dies ? 
who cares if he choses bujold or gardner ( although i would have chosen gardner , mainly on the basis that she can actually act ) ? 
who cares if richard roundtree makes money on his stupid " stunt ? " 
who cares if that idiot kid falls to his death on some wires ? 
and who cares about that whole plane spiel ? 
if anything , " earthquake " is worth a viewing for the same reason " glen or glenda ? " 
is . 
i mean , i laughed at this more than i did at " bio dome . " 
but that's another story ( and review ) . 
in short , " earthquake " gives disaster pics a bad name . 
the formula is simple . 
trap a varied group of people on an isolated location , then pop in a seemingly unstoppable monster to kill them one by one . 
these have been the successful ingredients for many good films ( the thing , alien , aliens , and tremors to name a few ) . 
so , why is it that so many films following this recipe end up pathetically bad ? 
 ( see the relic for a particularly putrid example . ) 
perhaps it is simply too easy to forget the necessary binding ingredient : effort and ideas . 
deep rising meets these two requirements part way , but not enough to salvage the film . 
treat williams is finnegan , the leader of a small boat crew who hire out their services ( and their boat ) for any activity . . . no 
questions asked . 
this time , however , they may have gone too far . 
their passengers , led by the ominous wes studi , are the type of multi-national terrorist squads usually only seen in die hard films . 
and their cargo . . . let's 
just say it has very high explosive potential . 
what is the target of these thieves ? 
why , the argonauticus , of course , a high tech luxury cruise yacht on its maiden voyage . 
but something else is hunting the argonauticus . . . something 
ancient and deadly . 
by the time the thieves arrive , nearly everyone on board the ship has been killed . 
and now the creature senses fresh meat ! 
so , you have the thieves and their mercenary boat crew , joining forces with the surviving passengers ( including the ship owner canton ( anthony heald ) , and a thief with less lofty goals , trillian ( famke janssen ) ) against the terror from the deep . 
and the monster gets to pick them off one by one . 
fortunately for the creature , this particular band of criminals happens to be the dumbest the world can offer . 
why else would they indulge in petty squabbling while they watch their friends become fish food . 
if there's a more clarion call for unity , i don't know what it might be . 
it's pretty easy to guess who will get killed off when . 
there are no surprises in that the most interesting characters seem to last until the end . 
for the most part , the watery tentacles seem to be acting on the audience's impulses to get rid of the most boring characters first . 
 ( although i wonder if the filmmakers might have extended djimon hounsou's life a bit if they knew this would be released so soon after his acclaim for amistad . ) 
treat williams is a passable hero , and famke janssen does her best julia roberts impersonation . 
but while wes studi and anthony heald are particularly slimy , very little of the rest of the company stand out in any way . 
the biggest treat in the film , however , has to be pantucci , kevin j . o'connor's whining engine-boy , under finnegan's employ . 
his constant quips may be a bit over-written , but they manage to capture the same vein of nerve-addled humor that bill paxton delivered as hudson in aliens ( or todd graff as hippie in the abyss , for that matter ) . 
it's just a stock part ( the comic-relief character ) , but it almost makes this tired alien clone bearable . 
as far as the monster goes , although the cgi is done well , the creature has no logical consistency . 
think back to the great ( or even just good ) movie monsters . 
they all had a set of " rules " about what they could do , and how and why they would do it . 
part of the joy of those films was slowly discovering , along with the heroes , just what those rules are . 
the tentacle monster in deep rising doesn't have a set of rules . . . 
or if it does , not a very good one . 
it merely eats ( or drinks , as the case may be ) , and there is no rhyme or reason for what it does in order to do so . 
the film never explains why the argonauticus is attacked in the first place . 
it simply happens . 
the action scenes are decent , but few are noteworthy . 
the film definitely does suffer from its proximity to titanic . 
deep rising's peril in the water scenes pale next to cameron's ( but can you really blame them ) . 
unfortunately , deep rising's efforts are more on par with speed 2 . 
on the plus side , however , the film's closing image shows some promise for a potentially interesting ( but unlikely ) sequel . 
perhaps you'd be better off waiting for that one . 
the thirteenth floor is a bland , obligatory exercise in genre film-making . 
if i hadn't recently watched the matrix and open your eyes -- both of which are similar but far superior -- i might have been a little nicer to this picture . 
craig bierko makes an adequate hero as douglas hall , the rich co-creator of a perfect human world simulation who is suddenly blamed for the murder of his boss ( armin mueller-stahl ) . 
everything that was subtle and smart about the previously mentioned films is battered over our heads in this one , and characters stare at each other for maddeningly-long periods of time and refuse to communicate on any realistic level . 
the acting is okay , but the film suffers from every logical flaw one could think of , and features a script ( co-penned by director josef rusnak ) loaded with cliches and stock characters . 
there are individual scenes and ideas that work -- i like the thought of a sentient computer program -- but none of the film's strengths are recognized to any meaningful degree . 
producer roland emmerich , based on this and his previous directorial efforts , seems hell-bent on bringing us the ultimate standard in mediocre science-fiction . 
my giant begins with a monologue that's more funny than not and a distinctive `princess bride , ' medieval fairy-tale-in-the- ? 90s feel . 
i was pleasantly surprised how sharp the comedy was , with very funny scenes occurring on a movie set in romania where talent agent sammy ( billy crystal ) is visiting a client and in the monastery where sammy ends up after being mysteriously saved when he accidentally plunges his car into a stream . 
and when sammy meets max , his giant , mysterious savior played by gheorghe muresan , there is magic in the air ; albeit it a bit goofy , i loved every minute of it . 
the film , of course , plays on the size difference between the two , and at times you would almost swear it must be special effects . 
i particularly enjoyed a shot of sammy dangling his legs from a max-sized chair as the two face each over an enormous table and eat from oversized bowls and spoons . 
i also liked jere burns' ( from tv's `something so right' ) performance as the director of the film in romania . 
at this point , the primary flaw in the film is that gheorghe muresan is incredibly hard to understand , particularly during his fast-paced first scene . 
it is unfortunate that the script required him to speak quickly right out of the gate , as i did understand him more as the film continued and i became accustomed to his speech . 
however , about the time muresan becomes coherent , the characters head to new york and the film takes a dive . 
off the high board . 
suddenly , we are expected to believe sammy is a do-whatever-it-takes slime ball . 
up until this point he was pursuing his own interests to be sure , but he didn't come off as a desperate jerk . 
if he had , the first scenes could never have been so lighthearted and magical . 
but now , in new york , we are further introduced to his neglected wife and son , and his character is desperate enough to involve max in a disturbing giant vs . midgets wrestling match , which i found quite unpleasant and jarring within the framework of the film . 
indeed , many scenes stuck out of this film like incorrectly placed puzzle pieces . 
this includes the scenes featuring steven seagal , when sammy gets max a role in a big , hollywood movie filming in las vegas . 
while i enjoyed seeing seagal poke fun at himself , the scenes appeared to exist solely because of his participation , rather than because the film demanded it . 
and the audience is required to take a huge leap to believe that max would win the role based on his quotations of shakespeare . 
at this point i found myself thinking , `we're supposed to believe that someone would cast this guy in a film ? ' 
then i realized he was , and i was watching it . 
in the final third , the film undergoes another transformation , this time to unbridled sentimentality . 
note : major plot points are revealed in this and the final paragraph . 
max went to america because sammy promised to reunited him with his childhood love , lillianna , who hasn't seen him since he was a normal-sized kid . 
her refusal to see max ( unbeknownst to him ) leads us to an awkward `ends justify the means' scene as sammy's wife serena , played nicely by kathleen quinlan , poses as lillianna . 
i found this scene offensive . 
not only did it rely on deception to induce warm , fuzzy feelings from the audience , it reduced max to someone we should pity and coddle , which i thought was quite undeserved . 
i think max could have handled the truth , gratuitous illness and all . 
late in the film we learn max , and in fact all giants , have a heart condition which shortens their lives considerably . 
this could be an enlightening revelation , but the film seemingly presents it only to justify sammy's transformation into a caring , sensitive guy -- and hey , a great dad and husband , too ! 
`my giant' suffers from a poorly constructed story line and undeveloped characters whose actions are determined by plot points rather than their own internal persuasions . 
a stronger story with more room for character growth might have been possible if the focus was on max's struggle to be accepted and cast in movies instead of sammy's struggles to get money and become a better person . 
in this scenario , max's illness could have been a integral part of the film not a story motivator . 
sentiment and emotion would have followed naturally . 
instead , we're apparently not supposed to like sammy until the end , but we're not allowed to focus on max . 
crystal and muresan give adequate and at times enjoyable performances , but in the end , `my giant' left me feeling like i'd been fed gruel from a giant spoon . 
alexandre dumas meets hong kong action with newcomer justin chambers reprising the oft-played character of dashing swordsman d'artagnon in director peter hyam's adventure " the musketeer . " 
for some reason that i may figure out later , i don't know why the time , money and effort were put into the making of " the musketeer . " 
it may be that someone had the clever idea of combining the dumas characters and story with the current enamor with the action work of hong kong imports like this film's xin-xin xiong ( " once upon a time in china " ) and yuen woo-ping from " crouching tiger , hidden dragon . " 
the result is a mix of genres that don't mesh well . 
elements of the ritz brothers-style comedy ( for those few who remember that comedic troupe from the 1939 " the three musketeers " ) , the man with no name from " a fistful of dollars " ( d'artagnan demands that the bad guys apologize to his horse in a direct ref to the clint eastwood spaghetti western ) and hong kong action choreography are all utilized in the original script by gene quintano . 
the result is an action flick that bears little resemblance to its source material while it makes contemporary that material in an effort to grab the " matrix " crowd . 
alexandre dumas may well be rolling in his grave if he knows what was done to his classic oeuvre and characters . 
the real problem with the " the musketeer " lies in the casting of the two lead , romantically intertwined characters , d'artagnan and francesca ( mena suvari ) . 
chambers has the boyishly handsome good looks for the character , a la chris o'donnell , but lacks any onscreen charisma . 
suvari has the doe-eyed , pretty looks as the chambermaid who has the ear of the queen , but she , too , does not have the chemistry to command the screen . 
if " the musketeer " makes them any money , they should invest in acting lessons . 
stronger performers may have helped to raise the bar on this one . 
the supporting cast is , on the surface , impressive . 
catherine denueve plays the queen of france and lends her character an air of royalty , dignity and humor , especially when she plays off of d'artagnan's mentor , planchet ( jean-pierre castaldi , who reminds of andre the giant in " the princess bride ) . 
stephen rea looks good in the part of the conniving usurper cardinal richelieu , but is given very little to help flesh out his character . 
tim roth is the kind of bad guy you love to hate as the cardinal's chief henchman , febre . 
he is so bad he makes simon legree look like a boy scout . 
the rest of the players , particularly the three musketeers aramis ( nick moran , " lock , stock and two smoking barrels " ) , porthos ( steve spiers ) and athos ( jan gregor kremp ) , are background fodder whose role is to come to d'artagnan's aid when needed . 
peter hyam's does double duty as director and cinematography and may be too stretched to do both well . 
a stronger hand at the helm could have helped the mediocre performances of the leads and better utilized his veteran thesps . 
photography is straightforward action fare that goes through all the appropriate action flick motions - d'artagnan takes on a tavern full of thugs and bests them single-handed ; he fights a gang of febre's henchmen aboard a speeding coach to protect the queen ( with the obligatory branches hanging over the road ) ; he goes one on one with his lifelong enemy , febre , who murdered d'artagnan's folks years before . 
it is all routine stuff . 
the renowned wire work developed by the hong kong action masters is used to artificial effect as the players leap , defying gravity , up walls and from horse to horse . 
it works in a sci-fi film like " the matrix " or in a classical fantasy like " crouching tiger , hidden dragon " but just calls attention to itself in " the musketeer . " 
at one point i could swear i saw the stunt wire being used . 
it did not make me a believer and i am very disappointed . 
with a run time of 106 minutes it should have been more like 80 and i give it a d . 
i think maybe it's time for the batman series to be put to rest . 
not only has the first two films' unsettling insight into what it would really take for someone to make himself into a " superhero " been abandoned , but this one throws any lingering realism out the window and goes for all-out camp with few traces of the self-mocking restraint of the relatively light-hearted third installment . 
let me give you an example : in the first scene of the movie , batman ( george clooney ) and robin ( chris o'donnell ) are summoned to a museum that has been literally turned to ice by mr . freeze ( arnold schwarzenegger ) in an attempt to steal a diamond . 
mr . freeze's thugs are armed with none other than hockey sticks , but this is no problem for our heroes : automatic skates shoot out of their shoes , at which point robin manages to get hold of a hockey stick , grabs the diamond , and stick-handles it through the museum . 
i might have expected this from an airplane-style farce , but i don't think that's what this movie is supposed to be . 
after all , the previous three batman movies were actually fairly realistic by the standards of the superhero/action genre and kept the corny death-defying stunts to a minimum , while playing the obligatory cheesiness with at least some amount of irony . 
not any more ; the list goes on and on in this one . 
robin holds onto the outside of a flying rocket ship 30 , 000 feet high in the atmosphere , climbing in the door to save batman . 
mr . freeze and poison ivy ( uma thurman ) leap from a skyscraper and survive by landing in a small pond . 
a world dominating mad scientist lives in a fortress that seems to have been stolen from the old he-man cartoons . 
my very favorite example is the scene in which batgirl ( alicia silverstone ) gets in a race with motorcycle thugs , during which they come up with the clever notion of dousing the road with gasoline and setting it on fire to distract her . 
not bad , but wouldn't the police ( or maybe batman ? ) 
notice if the road was on fire ? 
i knew gotham city was this crazy anarchic place , but . 
 . 
 . 
 . 
it also seems that the creators of the batman movies are obeying some unwritten rule that there have to be more main characters and plot lines in each successive installment . 
as if three protagonists and two villains weren't enough , batman and robin further weighs itself down with an underdeveloped side story of the failing health of bruce wayne's butler alfred ( michael gough ) , which might have seemed poignant if it wasn't surrounded by so much silliness , as well as several scenes with elle macpherson as bruce's girlfriend which serve no purpose other than to remind us that she is in the movie . 
all this might be semi-excusable if the story were interesting and entertaining , but it isn't . 
in fact , it's kind of boring . 
mr . freeze and poison ivy pale in comparison as villains to past baddies such as jack nicholson's joker and danny devito's penguin . 
their evil plot is as predictable ( schwarzenegger actually pronounces the words , " today gotham city , tomorrow the world ! " ) 
as it is lame-brained ( didn't it ever occur to poison ivy that freezing the entire world would kill her precious plants too ? ) . 
and robin's constant challenging of batman mostly just makes him look bull-headed and stupid and makes us wonder why batman ever would have taken him on as a partner in the first place . 
strip away the stars , the fancy set design , and the status as a " batman movie , " and all you have here is another barely passable summer action flick . 
in my opinion , a movie reviewer's most important task is to offer an explanation for his opinion . 
but with soul survivors , i'm so full of critical rage that this review is liable to turn into a venomous , uncontrollable rant , obligations damned . 
however , protocol forces me to do otherwise . 
soul survivors tells the story of four college-bound friends : cassandra ( melissa sagemiller ) is sweet and innocent . 
party girl annabel ( eliza dushku of bring it on ) is dating world-weary harvard student matt ( wes bentley ) . 
matt still has feelings for cassie , who is now dating sean ( casey affleck ) . 
driving back from a creepy , gothic party , the quartet gets into a horrific car crash . 
sean dies , leaving cassie crestfallen and guilty , made worse because sean saw matt kiss cassie just minutes after sean revealed his love for her . 
as cassie mopes through her classes , she sees the ghost of sean all over the place , urging her to follow him . 
along with being plagued by other ghastly visions , cassie is also followed by thugs from that strange party . 
annabel and matt try calming her down , but no one shares cass's visions . 
she has to figure out this purgatory all by herself . 
rarely have i seen a director so thoroughly mishandle material . 
in his directorial debut , steve carpenter does nothing to provoke the audience into feeling any emotion . 
when the movie's camerawork isn't pedestrian , it's clich ? d . 
carpenter's need for close-ups , his camera following sagemiller from behind , drain the movie of any anticipation . 
we already know what to look for , so why should we be surprised ? 
and the sense of scary atmosphere , which was recently done so well in the others , is nowhere to be found here . 
carpenter's script relies on random twists and turns with a minimum of logic and loads of laziness . 
this is a movie where the ending features one character providing an explanation about the plot to another character , which is one of the lamest screenwriting devices around . 
the second lamest device , of course , is the , " oh , it was all a dream " resolution . 
and guess what ? 
this movie has both ! 
not that the main body of the film , which has sagemiller constantly running in fear or having a nervous breakdown , is anything worthwhile . 
since there's no captivating dialogue , no character chemistry exists anywhere . 
that's a huge problem , since the four main characters are supposed to be couples . 
carpenter can't even get the smutty scenes right , which are becoming more prevalent in pg-13 movies like bring it on and get over it . 
[the film was recently re-cut from an r rating to get more kids in the seats . 
-ed . ] 
when sagemiller and dushku dance together at a club , he rarely shows them in a full shot and he never keeps the camera on them for longer than a second before relating to some michael bay-style quick cuts . 
and when sagemiller and dushku take a shower together after getting covered in paint , they're fully clothed . 
regardless , any sexiness in that scene is undercut by its stupidity . 
why wouldn't they wash the clothes in the sink or in the washing machine ? 
why would they shower in their clothes ? 
what if they weren't covered in latex paint ? 
the cast , which will see better material in the future , would be wise to leave this one off their resumes . 
i felt sorry for affleck , who i've liked in other movies , and bentley , who was great in american beauty . 
dushku , who possesses an alluring femme fetale quality , has got to stop taking roles belonging to rose mcgowan . 
as for sagemiller ( star of the aforementioned get over it ) , i want to see her in a movie where she plays a person , and not an object for gawking . 
and i'm not even getting into luke wilson's role as a priest . 
at least he's friends with wes anderson . 
bottom line : soul survivors is so awful i feel compelled to knock on doors and warn people about it . 
reading the cast and director for the new mobster comedy , " analyze this , " i asked myself , " how could this miss ? " 
robert de niro ( " taxi driver , " " raging bull " ) , billy crystal ( " city slickers " ) , lisa kudrow ( " the opposite of sex " ) , and director harold ramis ( " national lampoon's vacation " ) . 
these are usually reliable filmmakers ( well , okay , crystal has been in a sizable slump lately ) , and tellingly , the first half-hour of " analyze this " was very funny . 
unfortunately , as the running time ticked away , i began to think that the first thirty minutes had , unbeknownst to me , been rewound and were being replayed another two-and-a-half times . 
the film has obtained a clever premise , but does not have any idea what to do with it as it progressively becomes more and more repetitive until i finally stopped enjoying or caring about what was happening on the screen . 
middle-aged psychoanalyst ben sobel's ( billy crystal ) life is finally going very well . 
although he has never gotten along with his own uncaring parents , especially his father , who is also a psychiatrist , ben has an easy-going teenage son ( kyle sabihy ) and is about to travel down to miami to get married to his tv news reporter girlfriend , laura ( lisa kudrow ) . 
in little but a flash , however , ben suddenly sees his plans ruined when he accidentally hits the car of the mob and subsequently gets paid a visit from famed mafia guy paul vitti ( robert de niro ) , who desperately wants counseling , even though he himself won't even admit to having anxiety attacks . 
ben tries to help paul , mostly so he will get him off his back , but the plot gets more complicated when paul follows ben to his wedding , which ends with a man dropping eight stories to his death . 
it seems to ben that no matter what he does , paul vitti will not go away , and the more they become involved , the more ben's potentially happy life gets into danger . 
 " analyze this " has a few laughs sprinkled throughout ( mostly in the first half ) , but i always had the nagging thought that what director ramis and writers peter tolan , ramis , and kenneth lonergan had done was thought of one joke ( robert de niro lightly spoofing his serious past mafia roles , while terrorizing and becoming buddies with comic billy crystal ) and then tiresomely recycled it for the duration of the 106-minute running time . 
admittedly , de niro is very funny here ( and i can't remember the last time you could use that adjective to describe him ) , and crystal is in top-form , but the whole movie is weighed down directly on their shoulders with nothing else to support them , including a substantial plotline . 
since " analyze this " bills not one , not two , but three writers , you'd think that they would have been able to work together to fix the noticably large flaws , but they must have all been on auto-pilot . 
one of the most disappointing and wasted opportunities in the film is the way the movie deals with the supporting characters , all of which have next to nothing to do and aren't even given multi-dimensional characters to attempt to develop . 
coming off of her oscar-caliber work in two of last year's best films , " clockwatchers " and " the opposite of sex , " lisa kudrow's throwaway " girlfriend " role is an incredible step down . 
sure , kudrow's fellow " friend " jennifer aniston did the same thing two weeks ago in " office space , " but at least we got to spend a little time with aniston . 
kudrow , meanwhile , mostly just stands around , no doubt wondering why she agreed to appear in this film in the first place . 
chazz palminteri , as rival gangster primo , fares even worse , in a role that plays more like an afterthought than an actual character . 
finally , molly shannon ( rising film star and cast member on " saturday night live " ) has a rousingly hilarious one-scene cameo right at the beginning as one of crystal's patients and then completely disappears . 
too bad , considering that the supporting actors surely have proven that they have the abilities to support de niro and crystal . 
once " analyze this " approached its second wedding scene leaving kudrow's laura standing alone at the altar once again , i had become thoroughly annoyed by where the story had gone , and had mostly lost respect for the character we were supposed to sympathize with the most , ben . 
afterwards , the climactic scene with ben posing as a fellow mob boss in place of the depressed paul , became a real laugh-free dead-zone , losing its last remaining comic punches . 
 " analyze this " proves that talent can certainly help any film out , but when the written material isn't up to their level , what we are virtually left with is a vacuum of thin air . 
as we see the terrible events that unfold before our eyes in the middle east at the moment , hollywood doesn't loose the oppertunity to get involved , by telling stories and expressing opinions . 
this film centers on a relationship forged throughout the adult lifetimes of two marine colonels , hays hodges ( tommy lee jones ) and terry childers ( samuel l . jackson ) . 
they fought side by side in vietnam , where childers saved hodges' life by shooting an unarmed pow . 
that's against the rules of war but understandable , in this story anyway , under the specific circumstances . 
certainly hodges is not complaining . 
years pass . 
hodges , whose wounds make him unfit for action , gets a law degree and becomes a marine lawyer . 
childers , is now a respected and much-decorated hero that has served his country with his life and sould . 
because of his excellent record , childers is sent to yemen to rescue the american ambassador ( ben kingsley ) , cowering in the embassy under assault from violent demonstrators and snipers blasting from rooftops . 
childers does what he has to do : evacuate the family and protect the men under his command . 
after three marines die and the colonel thinks he sees ground fire , he orders his troops to shoot into the firing crowd . 
more than 80 yemeni men , women , and children are mowed down . 
childers is immediately accused of ordering his men to fire on a crowd and murder of unarmed civilians . 
he persuades his old friend hodges to represent him in the courtroom drama that occupies the second half of the film . 
did childers violate authorized u . s . military rules of engagement ? 
or are there simply no rules in war ? 
the answers to these stereotypical questions are obvious , but the inconsistent plot immediately raises all sorts of other questions . 
the murder of 83 " innocent civilians " has to result into something greater than a simple trial in the u . s . where is the accusations from the arab leaders ? 
where is the u . n . ? 
the film ends without even telling the most interesting story : what happens on the international arena ? 
this film ( in a way akin to films such as " a few good men " ) has already been accused of breaking the rules of morality and ethics and even of racism . 
these accusations are pretty heavy , but also unfair . 
what director william friedklin truly broke was the rules of decent filmmaking . 
one of the earliest apparent problems with 'rules of engagement' is its lack of credibility . 
the entire operation in yemen may remind us about what happens in the middle east right now , but is overdone , contrived and unrealistic - as if a chain of events had to happen in a particular manner in order for the plot to proceed . 
a lot of it is so cheesy that no one could possibly accept it as reality . 
that is precisely why it's not offensive . 
it is completely unobjective . 
many stories are started and never finished . 
many questions are asked , but never answered . 
a lot of parallels are referring to nothing . 
it seems that neither the director , producers or the screenwriter can make up their minds about the contents of their film . 
is it about arab mentality ? 
america's foreign policies ? 
america's role in the world ? 
corruption in the higher circles ? 
it goes on and on . 
it consists of countless stories , but not a definable plot . 
it tries to be everything for everyone and ends up being nothing for no one . 
i think that it is ironic , because director william friedkin's probably most acclaimed film was " the exorcist " which had a silly story , but became a rather effective film . 
in this case you have a strong story with many possibilities and the result is a silly film . 
though several scenes bare the mark of professionalism ( such as the impressive battle scenes ) , his latest film does simply not engage . 
i believe that friedklin is a director that is absolutely depended on great scripts and talented producers in order to succeed . 
it's obvious that he has neither and the result is therefore a catastrophe . 
the characters feel designed , unreal , merely shadows , with no life outside the conflict . 
even the actors can not save this film from going under . 
though both jackson and jones act admirably , with performances that are as good as you get with a script like this , it is not something that these great actors can boast of . 
they have roles that they could play blindfolded with their hand on the back . 
jackson is gray and jones uninteresting . 
the rest of the cast , including ben kingsly , blair underwood and guy pearce are simply waiting for their paychecks . 
the time has come for the verdict . 
on the charges of complete lack of objectivity , i find this film guilty . 
on the charges of breaking the rules of reasonable filmmaking , i find it guilty . 
but on the charges of racism i find this film not guilty , because of it's inconclusive and often silly plot that lacks objectivity everywhere , not only when concerning the arab population . 
i must admit that the film is dangerously near the line of being racially offensive and i do think that screenwriter stephen gaghan went a bit too far , portraying the yemeni people almost as stereotypical hollywood bad-guys . 
this is very sad , since in a time like this it is crucial to not lose objectivity and proclaim the truth . 
however , it is absolutely necessary to remember that the muslim terrorists are responsible for most of the terrorist activity in and outside the united states . 
and that it's not a coincidence that u . s . residents in the middle east , including yemen are on constant maximum alert . 
from dusk till dawn ( director/editor : robert rodriguez ; screenwriters : quentin tarantino/robert kurtzman ( story ) ; cinematographer : guillermo navarro ; cast : quentin tarantino ( richie gecko ) , george clooney ( seth gecko ) , juliette lewis ( kate fuller ) , harvey keitel ( jacob fuller ) , ernest liu ( scott fuller ) , salma hayek ( santanico pandemonium ) , tom savini ( sex machine ) , fred williamson ( frost ) , cheech marin ( border guard/chet pussy/carlos ) , michael parks ( texas ranger ) , brenda hillhouse ( hostage gloria ) ; runtime : 108 ; dimension films ; 1996 ) 
reviewed by dennis schwartz 
it's a love it or hate it film . 
i simply hated it . 
on its menu for fun , is a violent feast served up as charm and done in a tongue-and-cheek manner . 
it's a serial killer/horror film farce of nonstop over-the-top action and sleaze , involving decapitations , vampires , biker fights , extended gun play , and an array of gore that has to be seen to be believed . 
a film that regales in its vulgarity and campiness for blood-and-gore , as it goes out of its way to gloss over the clich ? s of the conventional b-films . 
it's geared only for the cult film crowd , and will make its mark there one way or the other . 
the plot involves two psychopath brothers , the older professional bank robber and killer seth gecko ( clooney ) and the perverted psychopath killer , richie ( tarantino ) , who kills for pleasure and is also a rapist . 
they escape jail and go on a killing spree in wichita and then flee to a liquor store in a small texas border town . 
they have just robbed a bank and killed a number of cops , they have also taken a middle-aged bank teller as a hostage . 
in the liquor store they kill a texas ranger and the store clerk , and burn down the store . 
stopping off in a flop-house motel , richie rapes and slaughters the hostage . 
these scenes are all done with an eye for comedy and parody , if that's possible . 
on the tv news , it says they have killed 16 so far and most are texas rangers . 
the brothers plan to get to mexico and meet carlos ( cheech ) , who will give them a place of sanctuary for thirty percent of their illegal take . 
with road blocks and car searches at the border , the brothers commandeer a motor home of a vacationing family who stopped at their motel so that the father could sleep in a real bed . 
there is the father , jacob fuller ( keitel ) , who just resigned as a minister because he lost faith ever since his wife died in a car accident ; his sexy 20-year-old , innocent daughter , kate ( lewis ) ; and , her shy brother scott ( liu ) . 
it's not explained how he happens to be chinese . 
the story really becomes bizarre when they get across the border and get ready to meet carlos in a bar/whorehouse for truckers and bikers called the titty twister . 
the place is open from dawn to dusk , thus the film's title . 
here's where rodriguez has a chance to throw convention out the window and have some absurd fun , as the place turns out to be a vampire hangout . 
it sells sex to its patrons , and has exotic stripper santanico pandemonium ( hayek ) do her alluring strip before turning into a vampire . 
the brothers and their hostages have to fight their way out of the place , as the vampires keep coming and the killings become the film's staple . 
this supposedly clever script did nothing but turn me off , though there were a few funny moments in a film that was dripping with special effects and spent most of its script in finding novel ways to showcase its killings . 
i'll take a pass on this one , it's just not my style of a film . 
the characters were as empty as the story , and the film was an easy one to forget . 
plot : a little boy born in east germany ( named hansel ) loves the american music . 
one day , he gets the opportunity to meet and marry an american g . i . , but first , he must get a sex change ( enter hedwig ) . 
once married , the two move to the states , but quickly thereafter , get a divorce . 
at that point , hedwig starts writing music and meets another confused boy , who soon turns into a star . 
that boy also turns his back on hedwig , and it isn't long before hedwig puts together his/her own band and tours the states via seafood restaurants . 
this is the story of his/her life , told via flashbacks and musical numbers . 
critique : an artsy-fartsy musical with great songs and a superb performance by john cameron mitchell , doesn't really come together as a whole , with over-the-top symbolism , incoherence and too much pretension to retain my interest all the whole way through . 
in fact , this isn't so much of a realistic , articulate , behind-the-scenes look at the rise of a rock 'n roll star , as it is an ambiguous , overly poetic and incomprehensible struggle of a man , his sexuality and his identity as a whole person on this planet . 
i guess that i was expecting the former going in . 
the film is somewhat interesting to a point , but i was personally never able to involve myself too much , as the basic symbolic and incongruent nature of the film left me feeling cold and distant . 
but it is definitely tuned to a certain type of audience . 
chances are that if you are a fan of the wall , the rocky horror picture show or even priscilla , queen of the desert , the elements tangled in this movie will likely strike your fancy ( some of the characters in this film even ask the audience to sing along at some point , and provide the lyrics of their song , on-screen ) . 
well , i personally don't care for those films , and didn't really get into the whole " show " atmosphere of this movie either . 
i guess i might've looked at it all too literally , but like i said earlier , i just didn't care enough about the characters to delve into the " so the butterfly represents his freedom ? " 
side of things . 
all i know is that the film left me with many questions unanswered and didn't make me feel any more fulfilled . 
what was hedwig's relationship with that other member of his band ( with the beard ) ? 
what happened with hedwig and tommy gnosis at the end of the movie ? 
 ( was that an actual sequence or a fantasy ? ) 
what ever happened to the lawsuit ? 
and more . . . 
all of which were part of the film and interested me somewhat . 
if the only idea behind the film was for the main character to uncover his/her sexuality , then that's one thing , but as many of the relationships and situations presented themselves in this movie , i wanted some resolution to those pieces as well . 
i didn't get it . 
the film's humor also didn't tickle my funny bone either . 
then again , i've seen many a film in these art-house theatres in which patrons are rolling down the aisles with laughter , while all i see is a tiny bit of whimsy on the screen . 
some of these films are also better enjoyed with the added " atmosphere " of a plant called marijuana , and i can certainly see how this movie ingrains within itself some nifty visual elements , in order to jazz up that experience . 
but being sober as i was and expecting a coherent , funny , musical with a transsexual twist , i didn't leave the theater very satisfied . 
i came out having watched an existential story of a confused man caught up in a musical lifestyle , wrapped in metaphors , dramatics and more questions than answers . 
i will , on the other hand , definitely hand some props out to the lead in this film , john cameron mitchell , who is also the man who wrote , directed and created the play on which this movie is based , and the tunes , which will likely be enjoyed by anyone who digs the sex pistols , david bowie and the whole 70s glam-rock scene . 
note : btw , it seems as though pretty much every single " mainstream " critic in the united states loved this movie from top to bottom ( and thought that it was really funny to boot ! ) , so you might want to take that into consideration yourself . 
but having said that , the main reason that i started this dinky website in the first place was because films like this would sometimes be uniformly applauded by the " official " critics , while i , a regular " joblo " in the audience , just wouldn't get what all the fuss was about . 
this movie is a perfect example of why i continue to write movie reviews . 
where's joblo coming from ? 
moulin rouge ( 8/10 ) - grease ( 8/10 ) - everyone says i love you ( 5/10 ) - the opposite of sex ( 8/10 ) - dancer in the dark ( 5/10 ) - o brother , where art thou ( 7/10 ) - love's labour's lost ( 8/10 ) 
8mm is not going to enlighten your day . 
it's a dark , grimy and disturbing portrait of underworld snuff films and filled with excessive violence . 
not only do you need the stomach to make it through this bloated mess , you'll require a lot of patience as well . 
nicolas cage seems to be doing quite a bit of overacting as of late . 
he wore a bizarre get-up and did a lot of yelling in the terminally awful snake eyes , and here he attempts a performance that can relate to someone completely losing their grip on reality . 
cage plays private investigator tom welles , praised for his secrecy and reliability . 
at home , welles is a family man , with a wife ( catherine keener ) and a small daughter to take care of . 
his new assignment is a bizarre one : the wife of a formally deceased millionaire has hired him to solve a mystery regarding a film found in her husband's safe . 
the film appears to be some kind of cheap pornography involving a teenage girl and a masked man , until the girl is brutally murdered . 
or so it seems . 
welles , of course , begins to burrow deeper and deeper to uncover the truth . 
and the more he becomes involved in this disturbing case , the more he gets in over his head . 
he hires an adult book store clerk named max california ( joaquin phoenix ) to be his guide through the ugly underworld of pornography . 
max knows what welles is getting himself into , and explains , `you dance with the devil , the devil don't change . 
the devil changes you . ' 
these turn out to be very wise words . 
8mm has a premise that begs for a better execution . 
the set-up is slick and well played , as cage uncovers the identity of the girl and travels to hollywood to locate her . 
this is where everything goes awry . 
although director joel schumacher succeeds in frightening us with his grotesque portrait of the `real world' , he forgot to inject any interest or excitement to the formula . 
everything about the movie becomes dull and lifeless , repelling the viewer like the effect of bug spray to insects . 
although it had enormous potential , the third act of 8mm is a total bust , leaving intrigued audiences in a baffling state of extreme disappointment as the proceedings spiral out of control . 
cage is the film's sole flame of energy . 
his performance is actually believable , but soon the director's demands start to weigh heavily on his shoulder and he begins stumbling along in desperation . 
still , you've got to give him credit for holding this project together as long as he did , for that is no easy feat when you consider the problems at hand . 
welles' trail soon leads him to a bizarre filmmaker ( played convincingly by peter stormare ) who is notorious for the hardest-hitting snuff films in the industry . 
this is where cage goes over the edge into a serial killer-like phase , in which he must take revenge on all those who murdered the innocent girl in the film . 
he tracks down the masked man responsible for the killing ( chris bauer ) , and they have a bloody brawl in the local cemetery , a fight sequence that would look more at home in a schwarzenegger movie . 
written by andrew kevin walker , 8mm dissipates into a poor man's seven , with all the violence but little of the effectiveness that made the latter such a chilling masterpiece . 
furthermore , what has become of joel schumacher ? 
the director has recently experienced a major drought , slumming in the depths of dismal flop after flop ( batman and robin , anyone ? ) . 
this putrid thriller is certainly not going to revive his career , so perhaps schumacher should start exploring his lighter side . 
synopsis : original " jurassic park " survivor alan grant ( neill ) is tricked by paul and amanda kirby ( macy and leoni ) into leading an expedition to an island overrun by dinosaur , to rescue their stranded son . 
grant's team is picked off one by one as they encounter dinosaurs both new and familiar , and grant grows to realise that some breeds are more intelligent than he previously thought . 
review : there is one reason why " jurassic park iii " is better than its immediate predecessor , " the lost world : jurassic park " . 
the latter wasted 129 minutes of my life ; the former , only 94 . 
the first " park " was a marvellous film , full of awe-inspiring sights , interesting characters , and genuine thrills . 
its two successors have been pale imitations , amounting to hundred-million-dollar b-grade horror movies . 
at least this third entry realises it ; whereas " the lost world " tried to justify its existence with a ludicrous and overextended plot , " jurassic park iii " simply sticks its characters on an island with a bunch of dinosaurs and lets the mayhem begin . 
there is a desperate sense of deja vu presiding over this movie ; the computer-animated dinos are no longer novel or exciting , and even the first-time presence of aerial lizards scarcely improves the situation . 
remember that wondrous first trolley ride through the park in the original movie ? 
nothing in this rehash even comes close . 
add in execrable dialogue from screenwriters buchman , payne and taylor , and phoned-in performances by the normally capable macy and leoni , and it is difficult to recommend the film to anyone but dino enthusiasts . 
at least neill makes some effort to retain the dignity of his character , and there is much less gore than in " the lost world " , making this installment more suitable for children . 
the characters in jonathan lynn's " the whole nine yards , " yet another in an endless recent string of mob comedies ( 1999's " analyze this " and " mickey blue eyes , " 2000's " gun shy " ) , are rarely ever written as real people , but merely as one-dimensional caricatures . 
when an added layer to one of their personalities is revealed , it is not to service the character development , or to naturally offer up instinctive characterizations , but to accommodate the convoluted plot . 
in a lightweight comedy , you might say , it is not required to have perfectly realized figures , just as long as they get the job done . 
unfortunately , for a comedy to work , it has to at least succeed at being funny , and if there was a laugh-o-meter available , i'd guess that it briefly ascended around 2 . 5% of the time for me . 
suffice to say , the comedy in " the whole nine yards " works about as well as the broken-down lawnmower in my backyard , and when a giggle surprisingly arises every twenty to thirty minutes , it is by sheer luck . 
nicholas " oz " oseransky ( matthew perry ) is an amateur dentist living in the quiet suburbs of quebec . 
trapped in a hateful marriage with the conniving sophie ( rosanna arquette , delightfully hamming it up with a clearly artificial french-canadian accent ) , one day oz sees that someone is moving into the house next-door . 
walking over to greet him , he is horrified to discover it is jimmy " the tulip " tudeski ( bruce willis ) , a former contract killer for the mafia who has just been released from prison . 
once getting to know him and becoming his friend , oz is more comfortable with his identity , but for sophie , it means a possible hitman to do away with oz . 
in her scheme , sophie sends oz to chicago to cash in by informing his old mob boss ( kevin pollak ) about jimmy's whereabouts , but in the process , he falls in love with jimmy's wife , cynthia ( natasha henstridge ) , who is being held hostage . 
upon return to quebec , and with one contrivance after the next , oz's dental assistant , jill ( amanda peet ) , is overjoyed to discover that he lives beside " the tulip , " and forces him to set up a meeting , since jill's dream in life turns out being a contract killer herself . 
have you got all that ? 
because there is more . 
much , much more . 
and this is a movie that , without credits , is little over 90 minutes and feels only like an hour . 
 " the whole nine yards " is an ultimately unsatisfying and empty-headed excursion into well-worn terrain already set by far superior pictures . 
how the cast , most of which are respectable actors , got caught up in such a cliched , deficient film remains a mystery , unless they thought it might aspire to match the congenial screwball zaniness of director lynn's 1985 comedy classic , " clue : the movie . " 
going into the theater , preliminary comparisons between the two movies were unavoidable , but by the twenty-minute mark , when i had chuckled once and laughed nary a single time , it was clear this production was in serious trouble . 
since the entire running time depends on the mechanisms of the plot , and the screenplay , inauspiciously written by mitchell kapner , collapses with every failing " comedy " bit , the film is an inevitable dead zone in the way of substance and , frequently , entertainment value . 
 " the whole nine yards " is neither facetious nor , aside from the subplot about jill's shocking eagerness to become a professional hitwoman , inventive , and more often than not , just lies there , the film spinning drearily around and around in the projector , but never igniting any sort of spark . 
a few select actors do what they can with the material , while others make no impact at all . 
on the mediocre side are actually those playing the two central characters : matthew perry and bruce willis . 
perry , innocuously enjoyable on tv's " friends , " plays the same exact sitcom-style character in all of his movies ( from 1997's " fools rush in " to 1999's " three to tango " ) , and it has become a crushing bore . 
meanwhile , willis makes next to no impression , and because of the limited guise of his jimmy " the tulip " tudeski , oftentimes disappears into the background . 
their three female counterparts fare noticeably better . 
best of all is natasha henstridge , far more radiant than in the exploitative " species " movies , who adds unanticipated depth and emotion to cynthia . 
henstridge has the talent , for sure , to break out of these countless throwaway roles , but first she must fire her agent . 
amanda peet has a lot of fun as the quirkily straightforward and giddy jill , and seems to know more about the art of comedic payoff than even perry who , thus far , has strived on a career based solely on comedy . 
it is too bad , then , that peet is unnecessarily asked to disrobe in a climactic scene , with the obvious sole purpose being to show off her breasts . 
finally , rosanna arquette is awful as sophie , but something tells me that was her purpose , and her clear overacting only aids in brightening up her limited screen time . 
also popping up is michael clarke duncan , fresh off an oscar nomination for his role in " the green mile , " as jimmy's largely built friend and fellow killer , frankie figs . 
when " the whole nine yards " eventually sputters to its underwhelming conclusion , one is left pondering how such a film ever got greenlit . 
a great deal of movies of this type have been made in the past , and this one is nothing but a duplication of better films , so what was the point ? 
without a passable screenplay or any notable technical accomplishments , " the whole nine yards " rests solely on the presumed charm of the cast , and half of the actors are not charming at all . 
now , what does that tell you ? 
take two old and dying men , a lifetime of regrets , a house full of sins , a thoroughly despicable man , enough lies , insecurities and other character defects to keep a team of psychiatrists gainfully employed , then add a inexplicable meteorological and amphibian-based phenomenon and you will have summed up magnolia , the newest film from paul thomas anderson ( boogie nights ) . 
the movie tells multiple stories , weaving them together , or overlapping them during the course of its three hour running time . 
would that the stories were worth the telling . 
earl partridge ( jason robards , a thousand acres ) is dying of cancer . 
bedridden , in much pain , it is obvious that his time is growing short . 
his much younger wife played by julianne moore ( an ideal husband ) is surprised to find herself struggling with his impending death . 
having married for money , she discovers that she has actually fallen in love with the old guy and regrets having cheated and lied . 
earl regrets having cheated on his first wife and estranging himself from his only son ( tom cruise , eyes wide shut ) , now a misogynist self-help guru who teaches men how to " seduce and destroy , " his sexual and vulgar perspective on male/female relationships is so over-the-top as to be utterly unbelievable . 
meanwhile , jimmy gator ( philip baker hall , the insider ) is also dying of cancer . 
not as physically incapacitated as earl , jimmy is still able to perform his duties as the lovable host of a long-running quiz show which pits adults against children . 
the current whiz-quiz-kid is stanley spector ( jeremy blackman in his film debut ) who is tired of the pressure of performing and is willing to call it quits . 
on the other hand , quiz kid donnie smith ( william macy , mystery men ) would like nothing more than to return to the spotlight when he was a " somebody . " 
his pathetic life is souring as he can no longer capitalize on his brief 15 minutes of fame which stanley is all too eager to relinquish . 
jimmy has his own family crisis as his drug-addict daughter ( melora walters , boogie nights ) refuses to have anything to do with him for reasons which are not disclosed to us until the end of the film . 
grabbing at one last attempt at happiness she reaches out to a softhearted cop ( john c . reilly , never been kissed ) even as she tries to push herself away from him because she deems herself not worthy of his affection . 
this dysfunctional group carries on for what seems to be an interminable two-thirds of the movie . 
and then it gets worse , literally raining frogs . 
yes , frogs . 
assuming it to be an intended deus-ex-machina device , it is an ineffective one because it doesn't seem to faze the characters much . 
oh , they may step gingerly around the splattered frog corpses littering the streets , but otherwise , the frog shower didn't seem to change their behavior or pattern of living ( or dying ) . 
there is simply too much going on in this movie and most of it is distasteful to watch . 
mr . anderson further obscures the film by incorporating a loud and intrusive sound track that often drowned out the dialogue , a character who apparently rapped a significant clue to a plot development which was completely unintelligble , and a heavy handed segment of " historical " occurances containing ironic twists which set up absolutely nothing . 
one of the recurring themes is found in a line donnie quotes : " we may be done with the past , but the past is not done with us . " 
this is an absolute lie . 
god is in the forgiveness business . 
in fact , as we humbly ask for forgiveness and repent or change our offending mindset , god's word says that he not only forgives , he also forgets . 
 " i , even i , am he that blotteth out thy transgressions for mine own sake , and will not remember thy sins . " 
isaiah 43 : 25 [kjv] 
the spiritual one who keeps bringing up our unrighteous past is the same one who wants to keep us in a state of condemnation . 
don't let him . 
next time your spiritual adversary reminds you of your past , take great pleasure in reminding him of his future . 
he hates that . 
so much for sweet returns . 
after smart horror films were starting to be made again after the exploitative 80's slasher movies , starting with 1996's " scream , " and followed by " scream 2 , " " urban legend , " and the original , " i know what you did last summer , " a film like , " i still know what you did last summer , " was bound to be made sooner or late . 
it is a perfect example of the exact reason why horror films temporarily burned out , and that is because they reached for the lowest-common-denominator in filmmaking , favoring non-stop deaths and gore for suspense , and trading in fleshed out , likable characters for one-dimensional nitwits . 
it has been exactly one year since julie james ( jennifer love hewitt ) suffered through the ordeal of being terrorized by ben willis , a psychopathic fisherman whom her friends and she accidentally hit in the middle of the road , and then , thinking he was dead , dumped him into the ocean . 
since then , julie has relocated to boston university , and although often paranoid and haunted by bad dreams , she has been able to put her life back together . 
when julie's friend , karla ( brandy ) , is called up by a radio station and answers correctly what the capital of brazil is , she wins a vacation to the bahamas for four people , which also includes karla's horny boyfriend , tyrell ( mekhi phifer ) , and will ( matthew settle ) , who karla sets julie up with after her own boyfriend , ray ( freddie prinze jr . , also returning from the original ) , doesn't show up . 
when they reach the secluded island , they discover it is the last day of the open season , and will be stranded there for the 4th of july weekend with a few employees to fend off a violent storm headed for them . 
of course , julie , her friends , and the workers aren't the only ones there , as the murderous ben willis , dressed in fisherman garb , returns to seek revenge on julie once and for all . 
it is a sad state of affairs when a movie like , " i still know what you did last summer , " is made . 
i am a very big fan of horror movies , and so it is especially disheartening to find out that this sequel to " ikwydls , " which i am a fan of , is almost an exact replica of a " friday the 13th " movie . 
while the original focused more on the story and characters , as well as genuinely suspenseful moments , thanks to the screenplay by kevin williamson ( who didn't return to write the sequel , and it shows ) , " i still know . . . " 
has no story to speak of , and is so vacuous of ideas , that the filmmakers , were forced to have a murder occur every five minutes just to keep the audience interested . 
also gone are any signs of character development , and since every single character died before i got to know them , all i was left with was to stare at the screen , indifferent to what was going on . 
while i cared about the fates of the characters in the original , it made no difference to me in this sequel who lived and died . 
they were all paper-thin and pointless , except to become victims to the lethal hook of the fisherman . 
another element that made the original so memorable were some superbly crafted set-pieces , like the store sequence with sarah michelle gellar , but there are none to speak of in this sequel ( although they do come close at one moment with brandy ) . 
since so many people were killed every couple minutes , the suspense and scares evaporated faster than salt in water . 
also of note is the mystery of the second killer , and accomplice to ben , but it is obvious from the first frame who it is , and so i couldn't even have fun at that , like i did in the " scream " movies and , " urban legend . " 
it figures that just as slasher films were starting to get some recognition again , a film would come along and ruin it for everyone else . 
maybe the people who made , " i still know what you did last summer , " should have realized that in order to make a good movie , you must have a screenplay---or at least one that isn't such a black hole for thoughts and ideas . 
the ending of the film inevitably leaves the door wide open for a third part , but judging from this amazingly lackluster first sequel , everyone involved should have quit while they were still ahead . 
around the end of 1998 , a japanese cartoon came to the usa television , and really wasn't that big . 
in fact not many people even knew what pokemon was , but in 1999 it hit big with kids and adults alike , and became one of the biggest franchises and merchandise seller of all time . 
in fact it even spawned a big screen adventure pokemon : the first movie which for what it was , wasn't all that bad . 
it grossed $31 million in its opening weekend , and went on to make almost $90 million . 
fans thought it was great and now is a second movie in the pokemon craze , " pokemon : the movie 2000 " which is far inferior to the original animated movie . 
first up is the plot , which there really isn't much of , in fact the plot what there is : a bad guy trying to destroy the ancient never before seen pokemon , lugia , is about it , except the fact that ash kethcum the worlds best pokemon trainer must try and stop him before he destroys this one pokemon forever . 
well there you go , of course ash is followed by his friends misty , brock , gary and his pokemon friends , pikachu , squirtle , charizard , the usual . 
even though the first movie wasn't a great film , it was definately an enjoyable well-made movie with an actual thin storyline . 
this new movie however is nothing but garbage , there is nothing good to it storywise , and its only good thing comes from some plush animation and colors . 
compared to the first film , this movie is awfully bland , from its opening titles , to the end titles it tries its best to work , but fails miserably at every corner . 
the characters are 1-dimensional , the story thin as chicken broth , and the writing very lame . 
even the so called action scenes are extremely lame , and falls before it even gets a chance to go . 
the voices even aren't that good and almost feels like the stars don't want to be there , like they can tell that this is an extremel bad movie . 
which it certainly is . 
the film has one thing going for it and that is the animation , although not up to disney standards , it is still very good with some interesting cgi's and very colorful animation , the colors jump out at you very fast , and seem very nicely put on film . 
why a film this bad got such a good treatment with its animation is still a question to be answered , hopefully pokemon 3 next year will be much better than this trash . 
for now watch the first one . 
its much much better . 
its a stupid little movie that trys to be clever and sophisticated , yet trys a bit too hard . 
with the voices of woody allen , gene hackman , jennifer lopez , sylvester stallone , and sharon stone , this computer-animated yak-fest ( think toy story [1996] filled with used merchandising ) is one for the ant-eaters . 
the main story is the independence of a worker named z ( allen ) . 
he wants more to life than just digging away underground for the colony . 
when he finds out about ``insectopia , " a mythical place where all insects can run free , z , along with his colony's princess ( stone ) , journey out into the world to find a meaning for life . 
about 15 minutes into the picture , i began to wonder what the point of the film was . 
halfway through , i still didn't have an answer . 
by the end credits , i just gave up and ran out . 
antz is a mindless mess of poor writing and even poorer voice-overs . 
allen is nonchalant , while i would have guessed , if i hadn't seen her in the mighty and basic instinct , stone can't act , even in a cartoon . 
this film is one for the bugs : unfunny and extremely dull . 
hey , a bug's life may have a good time doing antz in . 
godzilla is a nuclear freak . 
he is a lizard that has been mutated over the years and has become a new species , one that has a foot as long as this bus , and a claw as long as this sign . 
this aquatic creature made its first attack in the pacific islands . 
he tore up a ship that carried dozens of japanese men . 
one survived . 
only he was left to recount the terror that he had seen . 
he was merely able to repeat the words " godzilla . . . godzilla . . . godzilla " . 
the film then introduces us to matthew broderick , a biologist who has been studying the fascinating growth of chernobyl earthworms . 
 " they're 17% larger than they used to be ! " he proclaims . 
the u . s . military pulls him off this three year project and assigns him to figure out what godzilla is . 
and , boy , does he find out . 
and , boy , does godzilla suck . 
i hate to use such a word in a review , something that is supposed to inform my audience , but i really need to drive this one home and i refuse to use explitives . 
it is unbelieveable to me how the producers of this movie saw the final cut and said , " ok ! 
it's great ! 
let's show this puppy . " 
roland emmerich needs a good horse whipping . 
his latest piece of trash makes id4 look like a masterpiece of modern american cinema . 
and if steven spielberg had never made the jurassic park films , emmerich and his team of talent-challenged imbeciles would never have had a clue as to how the creature should look . 
let me give you a few examples of this terrible attempt at filmmaking . 
i plan on giving some things away here . 
belive me , godzilla holds no surprises for anyone with an iq higher than their shoe size , so . . . no 
worries . 
however , if you are looking for that " first time thrill " and you refuse to let me do you this favor , by all means , stop reading now . 
a . ) godzilla makes his first ever attack in the pacific islands . 
he next strikes in new york city . 
um . . . anyone have a map handy ? 
b . ) the mayor of new york city is a heavy set individual with parted gray hair and thick glasses . 
his name is mayor ebert . 
his assistant is named gene . 
gene gives ebert a thumbs down at the end of the film . 
i couldn't make this up if i tried , folks . 
c . ) stay with me on this one . . . 
ok . 
godzilla can out run torpedoes . 
hank azaria can out run godzilla babies . 
 ( which look more like jurassic park raptors than the jurassic park raptors . ) 
d . ) the u . s . military , upon realization that godzilla has disappeared after running rampant through the city , decides that he " might be hiding in a building . " 
e . ) ( oh yeah , i can go all the way to e . ) godzilla strikes at manhattan . 
manhattan , an island approximately the size of san francisco holds three million people . 
they evactuate to new jersey in about one day . 
no problem . 
f . ) early on , they bait godzilla with fish . 
 ( he likes fish , you know . ) 
the thing is on an island . 
the atlantic ocean is three steps east , but pile a whole bunch of grouper on fifth and 57th . . . oh 
he's gonna come running . 
g . ) you know what ? 
i'll stop with the list now . . . the 
alphabet isn't big enough anyway . 
the dialogue makes me wonder if producer dean devlin had his five year old do a re-write . 
 " the kid is good ! " he must have said . 
maria pitillo is looking to become a name in hollywood by starring in this potential blockbuster . 
bad move , maria . 
acting doesn't get much worse than her turn as broderick's ex-flame . 
matthew broderick is a good actor , but you'd never give him a chance if godzilla were the only film of his you'd seen . 
jean reno needs to pick his american films a bit more carefully . 
at times , godzilla seems to be headed toward a zucker , abrahams , zucker film . 
 ( airplane ! , naked gun . ) 
the jokes are indeed that bad . 
but just when you think the filmmakers are having fun with you , they take themselves seriously . 
how dare they ! 
godzilla would have been better if it had only thrown in visual sight gags and fart jokes . 
at least then we would know we were supposed to laugh . 
each and every character in godzilla is beyond stupid and i was really pulling for the beast to kill more of them . 
emmerich did do one thing , though . 
 ( and i've no idea if it was intentional . ) 
he made me sympathize with godzilla . 
his attackers were so damn dumb that i felt sorry for him being pelted with bullets and missles . 
but what made me feel even sorrier for him was that his famous name will always be attatched to one of the worst films hollywood has ever produced . 
after the recent animated debacles of , " a rugrats movie , " and " a bug's life , " i am seriously considering raising my highly negative rating on dreamworks' other insect film from october , " antz . " 
i hated that movie , and yet , it is so much better than these latest two excursions . 
 " a bug's life , " is the second animated insect film in the last two months , and i hoped for the best , considering it was done in the wonderful style of pixar's last film , 1995's " toy story , " but in no way does , " a bug's life , " even remotely match up to that . 
flik ( david foley ) , an ant , who along with his many comrades , has the job every year of gathering up the seasonal harvest , only to have to give half of it away to the dominating grasshoppers , led by hopper ( kevin spacey ) . 
flik , however , feels all alone and unwanted in the world , especially after he accidentally loses all of their food , and the ants are threated by hopper to gather up a whole other season's load by the time the last summer leaf falls from the trees . 
banished from ant island , flik leaves the colony in search of some strong reinforcement to help out , but through a misunderstanding , returns with a handful of helpless circus bugs , including a walking stick ( david hyde pierce ) , a dung beetle ( brad garrett ) , a gypsy moth ( madeline kahn ) , a male ladybug ( denis leary ) , and a caterpillar ( joe ranft ) . 
 " a bug's life , " has one thing going for it . 
only one thing . 
with its glorious , bright colors , the computer-generated animation is a spectacle to look at . 
the film itself , unfortunately , is a lifeless , unamusing contraption without any of the flair or excitement of , " toy story . " 
the characters in , " a bug's life , " are an assortment of either unlikable or dull insects without any charm or personality , other than to stand around and recite arbitrary and thoroughly unfunny one-liners . 
the thin story was also stretched out to a nearly unbearable 94 minutes , and it often felt as if they ran out of ideas throughout , and so they made up pointless scenes to pass as time-filler . 
after giving such scathing reviews to the animated films from this year , i was beginning to think that i had simply outgrown them , but then i realized this is just not so . 
i still adore almost all of the older disney films , and many of the newer ones , such as 1989's , " the little mermaid , " 1991's , " beauty and the beast , " 1993's , " the nightmare before christmas , " and yes , 1995's , " toy story . " 
maybe this has just been a bad year for children's films , and hopefully , the upcoming , " the prince of egypt , " will not be a disappointment . 
as for , " a bug's life , " i did not enjoy anything about it . 
not the story , not the characters , and not even the voiceover work , which was far more lively in , " antz . " 
 " a bug's life , " goes down as yet another failure for disney , and it is a sad state of affairs when their best film in the last two years has been the minor jonathan taylor thomas picture , " i'll be home for christmas . " 
once upon a time jean-claude van damme was a decent action hero . 
the muscles from brussels bursted into the hollywood market with mindless adventure films , boasting his spectacular martial-arts ability . 
some of these excursions were fun . 
but now it seems like watching a van damme movie has become a painful chore , with no rewards but the virtually guaranteed helping of mind-numbing action . 
and when the action goes sour , what is there left to enjoy ? 
i'll explain . 
knock off is about a pair of counterfeit jeans salesmen working out of an office in hong kong . 
marcus ray ( van damme ) , a babe-magnet and stylish dresser , heads up the company with an annoying weasel of a partner ( rob schneider ) . 
they become part of a plot involving microbombs implanted in counterfeit jeans , seemingly by a mole in the business . 
i'm going to reveal about everything in the next paragraph , so if you want a review devoid of spoilers , skip onto the next one . 
i'm not quite sure who gives a crap , but i'll issue a warning anyhow . 
tommy is really working with the cia . 
his boss ( a very hammy and flat paul sorvino ) is the mole , and he wants to cause carnage with these tiny but immensely powerful super weapons . 
he even stoops so low to put them into children's toys . 
if you thought this plot outline sounded intriguing , then you probably will enjoy knock off . 
if you think that this ridiculous set-up couldn't even fill five minutes of screen time without causing you to roll over laughing , this might not be your cup of tea . 
knock off sucks . 
it stoops to ridiculous levels that most individuals could only conjure up in horrific nightmares . 
it amazes me how far these producers will go to sell something , simply because van damme is the star . 
the plot is pathetic garbage strung together by inane action sequences that will baffle your mind , the performances are so wooden you could use them to row a canoe , and the action itself is an absolute catastrophe . 
director tsui hark ( who teamed with van damme in the superior , but still lame-brained double team ) is at the helm , and he would rather attempt to dazzle us with fantastic camera angles than engage us with the plot . 
i suppose i enjoyed some of the camera work , but the incessant desperation of it all made me rather nauseous . 
the picture freezes in the middle of an action sequence , speeds are altered consistently , and the camera tricks mostly apply to traveling up gun barrels as the weapons are fired . 
it all sounds very cool . 
trust me , it isn't . 
as much as it scars me to say this ( har , har ) , van damme is terrible . 
sure , he does lots of fancy kickboxing moves and dodges giant crates with the greatest of ease . 
he looks like he's doing a bad impersonation of jackie chan , and his performance is stiff and tired . 
i hate to say it , but perhaps it's time for mr . van damme to give up his day job . 
it's really a test of endurance watching knock off . 
i suppose there's some enjoyment derived from schneider's character , who is extremely annoying , but provides the film's better moments . 
and what is the beautiful lela rochon doing in this movie ? 
hopefully she grabbed her paycheck and then fled the premises like an olympic sprinter . 
knock off doesn't even stand strong as a mindless but entertaining action film , like a handful of van damme's others . 
no , this movie is an embarrassment to the entire action genre of modern filmmaking . 
and considering how low hollywood has stooped as of late in that department , that is certainly not saying much . 
note to self : avoid universal soldier 2 : the return upon release in august ? 99 . 
the year is barely a week old , and there is already a candidate for the worst of 1997--the relic , a would-be chiller that's more successful at making the audience laugh than scream . 
in this ridiculous film from uberhack peter hyams ( whose last two pictures were dreadful jean-claude van damme vehicles ) , a creature that feeds on the hypothalamuses ( hypothalamii ? ) of humans and animals goes on a killing spree in a chicago museum . 
how did this creature come into existence , and why does it feed on hormones ? 
the " scientific " explanation cooked up by the four--yes , four--credited screenwriters ( amy holden jones , john raffo , rick jaffa , and amanda silver ) takes " suspension of disbelief " to new heights , even by monster movie standards . 
but as cockamamie as the science is in the film , it isn't quite as hard to swallow as the casting of the clueless penelope ann miller as a brilliant molecular biologist who specializes in evolutionary genetics . 
miller acts as if she wants an oscar nomination , turning every scene that requires the slightest display of emotion into an overblown oscar clip , complete with piercing wails and glycerine tears . 
give it up , penelope--it's a _monster_movie_ . 
on the flip side , tom sizemore just phones in his performance as a police lieutenant , but his role is so thankless that it's hard to imagine it being played any more effectively . 
it's quite funny to see a film indulge , with the straightest of faces , in all those cheesy horror movie cliches that wes craven lampooned so well ( and so recently ) in scream . 
for example , in one early scene , a museum security guard goes into a bathroom stall late at night . 
ok , we all know what's coming , but as if we didn't need any more confirmation , he pulls out a joint and starts puffing away . 
everyone knows what happens to people who do drugs in a scary movie . 
and later , miller frantically runs out of a museum exhibit after she hears some suspicious heavy breathing . 
does she make a beeline for the front door ? 
of course not--she runs into the ladies room and cowers in a stall . 
with all the cliches , it is only fitting the film's climax offers what is perhaps the most overused one in recent film : that of someone outrunning a fireball . 
if the relic is truly " the next evolution in terror " as the poster states , then the horror film--and humanity--is in even worse shape than we thought . 
susan granger's review of " two can play that game " ( screen gems ) 
since the success of " waiting to exhale , " there have been several romantic comedies about african-american professionals . 
this female revenge fantasy , vivica a . fox plays shante smith , a stunning ad exec who seems to have reached the pinnacle of success : a mansion , a sporty car and an idyllic relationship with a hunky , hot-shot lawyer , morris chestnut . 
she's at a point in her life when she dispenses advice to her grateful girl-friends ( mo'nique , wendy racquel robinson , tamala jones ) . 
 " when your man messes up , no matter how small it is , " she smugly decrees , " yuh gots to punish him . " 
so when she catches her hot man dancing at a bar with a smart and sexy rival , gabrielle union , she devises her own version of " the rules , " a 10-day " tough love " emotionally punishing plan to get him back . 
unfortunately , writer/director mark brown ( " how to be a player " ) breaks the cardinal rule of romantic comedy : you have to like the protagonist - and shrill , self-congratulatory shante smith is a smirking , superficial , spiteful shrew who doesn't realize that rational rules cannot always be applied to love . 
having her talk directly into the camera gets stale very quickly and the " day one , " " day two " title-card device underscores the tedium . 
comic anthony anderson scores as chestnut's boisterous best-friend , and singer bobby brown does a cameo as a scuzzy mechanic who's given a smooth makeover by ms . robinson . 
but the out-takes over the closing credits contain more humor than the film itself . 
on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " two can play that game " is smarmy if slick 4 , filled with misogynistic attitude and blatant product placements ( coca-cola , miller genuine draft ) but little else . 
in this r-rated ( for explicit sexual language ) , pseudo-hip battle of the sexes , the audience loses . 
susan granger's review of " glitter " ( 20th century-fox ) 
there's less here than meets the eye . 
or , put it this way , if you thought madonna was awful in " shanghai surprise , " mariah carey's worse in this reworking of " a star is born . " 
she plays billie frank who , despite being abandoned by her singer/alcoholic mother ( valerie pettiford ) , believes she's destined for greatness because everyone tells her she is . 
 " you've got this amazing gift , and you gotta use it , " her roommate says . 
 " your voice - it's incredible , " says another singer . 
 " i ain't never met anyone like you , " proclaims julian " dice " black ( max beesley ) , the hot new york dj who becomes her svengali-like producer/lover . 
problem is : her signature song , " i didn't mean to turn you on " is wretched . 
and when she fumes out of filming her first music video because the director wants to " exploit " her by having her wear a bikini , the audience bursts into laughter . 
exploit mariah carey , who chooses to wear as little as the law will allow ? 
come on ! 
writer kate lanier's script is fatuous and director vondie curtis-hall doesn't have a clue how to handle the glitzy pop diva and , as a result of their incompetence , whispery-voice'd ms . carey seems to be embarrassed on-screen . 
she almost cringes when the camera comes in for a close-up , pursing her lips and averting her glassy eyes . 
talented british musician max beesley appears equally inept , and as cinematographer geoffrey simpson pans around the manhattan skyline , there's an audible audience groan when the twin towers of the world trade center come into view . 
perhaps one of the reasons ms . carey suffered her highly-publicized nervous breakdown this summer is because she saw a preview of this clunker . 
on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " glitter " is a pathetic 1 . 
right now , it's tops on my list of the worst of 2001 . 
the ads make " hanging up " seem like an upbeat comedy about a rascally father and his three daughters . 
anyone who went to the movie expecting that left disappointed . 
all of the movie's funny scenes were included in the ad . 
so what do we get ? 
eve marks ( meg ryan ) just put her father lou mozell ( walter matthau ) into a hospital . 
once upon a time , lou was a hollywood screenwriter who collaborated with his now-estranged wife . 
his one great moment in life was writing a film for john wayne , who gave him a giant bullet-shaped trophy . 
now lou is senile and deteriorating rapidly . 
eve tries to convince her sisters georgia ( diane keaton ) and maddy ( lisa kudrow ) that their father is dying and needs them . 
both are slow to show concern . 
so devoted eve stands vigil over her father , who constantly asks for his favorite daughter georgia , while running her own business ( planning special events ) and caring for her son ( jesse james ) . 
 ( some comic relief comes when maddy also drops off her ailing st . bernard for eve to care for . ) 
the tension builds until all three sisters are finally in one room at one of eve's events where georgia is the keynote speaker . 
there's a superficial resemblance to shakespeare's " king lear " ( senile king with three daughters : one devoted saint and two selfish bitches ) , but the material is apparently drawn from life . 
sister screenwriters delia and nora ephron had parents who were a successful hollywood writing team . 
henry and phoebe ephron collaborated on 17 screenplays , including " desk set " and " there's no business like show business . " 
 ( delia's novel , the basis for the film , is dedicated to henry ) . 
surprisingly , the script is as thin as an anorexic's wet dream . 
the virtue of a semi-autobiographical project would seem to be the wealth of material available . 
yet , the ephrons provide only the barest minimum of information about their characters . 
also , the spaces they inhabit seem artificial . 
eve lives in a house that looks like a magazine layout ; no matter how put-upon she is , we can't feel sorry for anyone whose house is so pristine on any given day . 
georgia is a famous magazine editor , and in her brief scenes while she chats on a cell phone with eve seem like the photo spread for a profile . 
when we first meet maddy , she's fishing at a picturesque mountain stream . 
i expected to see the credit " cinematography by 'vanity fair . ' " 
and , yes , diane keaton is literally old enough to be lisa kudrow's mother . 
to her credit , though , she looks young enough to pull it off . 
the one redeeming aspect of " hanging up " is that , at its core , is a truth about siblings . 
there's always one on which everyone else in the family relies , freeing the others to be selfish and emotionally distant . 
my wife is the reliable child in her family ; for better or worse , my brother has the role in mine . 
 ( being selfish and emotionally distant may not be fulfilling , but it is a lot less work ) . 
if you have nothing better to do than watch this movie , look for a powerful cameo by cloris leachman as the sisters' mother pat . 
in a devastating scene , eve discovers that her mother doesn't love her . 
although leachman is best known for comedies like " young frankenstein " and " the mary tyler moore show , " her performance here reminded me of the considerable dramatic talent she displayed in " the last picture show . " 
bottom line : everyone involved has lived in hollywood so long they don't recognize real life anymore . 
this is the worst movie i've seen since the " so bad i walked out on it " " jingle all the way " . 
it is crap on toast made of crap baked in a an oven fueled by crap . 
it is crap through and through . 
nothing works in this film , as to be expected from joel schumacher , who has made only one watchable film in his entire career ( that being " cousins " ) . 
here's a man who admits he's a medicore director , a rather charmingly self-effacing statement . 
but truth be told , he is much worse than mediocre . 
not all scorn should be heaped on schumacher though -- akiva goldsman should not be allowed to write ever again . 
there is no plot anywhere , and the " dialogue " is unrelentingly shallow , preposterous , and boring . 
they set up mr . freeze as a tragic figure trying to cure his cryogenically frozen wife , then completely sabotage his character by giving him the lamest one-liners . 
it turns him into a stock maniacal villain who thoroughly enjoys his villainy instead of a brooding scientist who has spent much of his life to bringing his wife from the brink of death . 
but that's par for course -- nothing in this film makes any sense , including half of arnold schwarzenegger's lines . 
as mr . freeze , arnold is given way too much dialogue to spit out at once . 
this is the same problem he had in " jingle all the way " , and it seems that his austrian accent is getting thicker and more unintelligible as the days pass . 
personally , i think that he has more pull with the directors and doesn't retake scenes to make him understandable . 
compare his dialogue in the terminator series to the load of nonsense that streams forth in " batman & robin " . 
apparently , james cameron knows how to get a competent performance out of arnold . 
uma thurman is not as bad , but nothing resembling good either . 
her poison ivy vamps around terribly , chewing up scenery left and right . 
and her pamela isley scenes are marred by sub-snl standard " acting " , as if she's reading off cue cards and is about to laugh at any given moment . 
given the " script " , it's a wonder it didn't happen more frequently . 
there is no redeeming feature in this film -- not george clooney as batman , chris o'donnell as robin , nor alicia silverstone as batgirl . 
michael gough is eerily sickly looking as alfred , as if the conceit of his illness was prompted by his cadaverous appearance . 
in fact , there was something unsettling about his appearance , which seems to have been accomplished without any make-up tricks , looking as if it were scenes from a documentary about a dying man . 
unfortunately , every scene about alfred's sickness is bungled with such incompetence that there is absolutely no emotional resonance -- they just go through the motions , losing whatever impact the scenes were supposed to impart . 
the movie is rife with poorly choreographed fights scenes that never give any sense of a big battle -- you know there's a bunch of people , but instead of a melee , schumacher decided to focus on a foot or a fist . 
there's never a moment of awe , wonder , or mayhem . 
the only interesting part of the battles scenes are the freezing effects , which are impressive ( and probably expensive ) . 
even then , the fights are so full of camp and stupidity that they become unwatchable . 
the hockey team from hell ? 
not even the tv series got that stupid ( at least not on the grand scale of stupidity that " batman & robin " showcases ) . 
frustrating too are the various supporting characters that walk on and off with nothing to say or do . 
blink , and you'll miss elle macpherson as julie madison , vivica fox as a " why is she even in the film " vamp in freeze's lair ( with all of two lines ) , and pat hingle as the most ineffectual commissioner gordan the batman series ever had . 
and in what almost seems like an effort to save on costs , vendela kirsebom has no lines as mrs . fries -- she isn't even filmed well enough to look good ( trust me , she's quite attractive outside of this dreck ) . 
and as if the film weren't bad enough to limp along with bad direction , bad dialogue , bad performances , and bad fight scenes , there are inconsistencies and illogic galore . 
i know it's nit-picky to ask where the hundreds of feet of cable are stored in the batarangs , why the character's arms aren't ripped out of their sockets when they accomplish a one-armed batarang save after falling hundreds of feet ( while holding on to another person no less ) , or where the moisture comes from when freeze's weapon creates tons if ice . 
that's all traditional comic book stuff . 
but why does batman spring a trap for freeze at a public charity event that endanger the lives of hundreds of by-standers ? 
why is there a big switch clearly marked , " heat " in mr . freeze's lair ? 
why do countless bumbling police officers even try to take on mr . freeze hand to hand ? 
why does alfred encourage silverstone to become batgirl and even go so far as to have a suit made for her ? 
why do batman & robin take 10 minutes to bicker before leaving the batcave in response to an emergency ? 
and since it established early on that ivy is using pheromones , why don't they wear masks to filter it out ? 
i could go on and on . 
 " batman & robin " is a braindead , pointless , garish , loud film that should still reign as the " worst film of the year " by the time 1998 rolls along . 
note to warner bros . -- if you're going to make another batman film , please replace schumacher with nearly anyone . 
because it could actually get worse than this . 
what schumacher does not understand is that " comic book " doesn't automatically equal unbearable idiocy . 
the true equation seems to be schumacher + batman = unbearable idiocy . 
when i ponder childhood memories past , one of the things that always springs immediately to mind is watching the " inspector gadget " tv show with my older brother . 
truth be told , we were rabid fanatics ; our version of cowboys and indians was chasing each other around our coffee table to the theme tune , alternating who would get to be gadget and who would be stuck playing the part of dr . claw , the inspector's arch nemesis . 
i was never a biggie on nostalgia , but you just can't help but have fond memories of something like that . 
sometimes i even find myself up at 4am watching re-runs of my favorite episodes , trying to recapture some of that sense of wonder i felt as a kid . 
at the very least , i was expecting the new film version of the classic television series to have at least some kind of similar effect on me . 
despite how horrid a film may be , the simple task of rekindling even a slight feeling of nostalgia is pretty tough to screw up . 
so back i sat , with minimum expectations of what the movie would deliver ( let's face it ; exactly how good can a live-action disney film really be ? ) . 
i was wise enough to steer clear from the likes of mr . magoo and george of the jungle ( two previous disney adaptations ) , and i wish to god that i had been sharp enough to skip gadget as well . 
rarely has a movie left me with such an utter feeling of emptiness . 
as everyone else was getting up to exit the screening room after the movie had completed its assault on mankind , i was left sitting there , absolutely speechless and totally dumbfounded at what i had just seen . 
can something this awful truly exist in such an evolved world ? 
right from the beginning , i knew i was in trouble . 
in the opening scenes , each character is introduced as if their sole purpose is to just be , to simply serve as real-life duplicates of their cartoon clones . 
when referring to them , people almost yell in fear that the audience will not catch on as to who a certain character is supposed to be ( " oh , hi penny ! 
is brain with you ? " ) . 
creating one-dimensional replicas is one thing ; having mere names take the place of them is quite another . 
the " plot " , shall we call it , stays fairly in tune with the original series . 
matthew broderick stars as john brown ( how creative is that ? ) , 
a security guard who is horribly injured by a pack of ruthless businessmen headed by scolex ( why , rupert everett , for the love of god why ? ? ? ! ! ! ) , who himself is transformed into claw by an unfortunate chain of events . 
brown is then rescued and used as a prototype for a new law-enforcement technology wherein he's joined with various machine parts and some nifty gadgets to form ( drumroll , please ) . . . 
inspector gadget ! 
>from here on out , the movie becomes a hodgepodge of stupid dialog and confusing situations ( although , to be fair , my confusion could have been caused by the virtual concussion the film was inflicting upon my fragile mind ) . 
there's something about an evil gadget taking over the city ( his first crime must have been swiping matt dillon's dentures from there's something about mary ) and it all ends with ( what else ? ) a bunch of post-credit nonsense and a cameo by don adams himself . 
to be honest , i wasn't much paying attention to these " treats " . 
i was just glad that it was over . 
perhaps if the impostors didn't have so much going for it , it wouldn't have been such a tremendous disappointment . 
written , directed , and produced by one of its two stars , stanley tucci , whose last picture was the indie smash hit , big night , the impostors almost never catches fire . 
sputtering like a two-day old campfire , the story plays like an ad-lib sketch that was never polished or completed . 
the film's other star , oliver platt , was hilarious as the senator's aide in bulworth . 
the bloated supporting cast is a veritable cornucopia of acting talent , including woody allen , steve buscemi , hope davis , alfred molina , campbell scott , lili taylor and tony shalhoub . 
all are wasted save allen , who plays a theatrical director who stares in disbelief at the bad acting before his eyes . 
 ( the audience will easily identify with allen's sentiments . ) 
with the exception of a single original joke involving mirror-imaged subtitles , the movie engenders little genuine laughter . 
the stale humor is so embarrassingly bad that you will find yourself laughing sporadically at the picture rather than with it . 
the plot for the movie involves two starving actors , maurice ( oliver platt ) and arthur ( stanley tucci ) , who accidentally end up on a cruise ship . 
in order to escape an angry shakespearean actor ( alfred molina ) , who is chasing them , they dress up as ship's stewards . 
the over-the-top script has the subtlety of a sledgehammer . 
when the leads hide from their pursuers , arthur covers maurice's mouth as he suffers an unending sneeze . 
at other times , we have the typical zany comedy routine where everyone chases everyone else , while darting in and out of staterooms . 
with the film's chapters introduced like placards at a vaudeville stage , it is clear the movie wants to be taken as farce . 
the press notes describes how everyone that came on the set remarked at what a good time all of the actors were having . 
too bad they weren't more concerned with the audience's potential enjoyment . 
the jokes , frequently framed in silence , fall like stones with such intensity that one can almost hear them hitting the ground . 
one wonders if anyone ever viewed the film's dailies . 
surely , if they had , they would have realized what leaden results they were producing . 
it is tricky having good actors play bad ones , but , if they couldn't pull it off , they should have just given up . 
 " the show is over for this fella , " steve buscemi's character says towards the end . 
the mystery is why they didn't all give up in the beginning . 
there must have been a better script somewhere for such a wonderful cast . 
the impostors runs 1 : 42 . 
it is rated r for a little profanity and would be fine for kids around 12 and up . 
this was the last carry on movie ( if you discount 'carry on columbus' as a carry on movie ) and was made by a new production company . 
based in central london , this movie is about the attempts by emmanuelle prevert ( suzanne danielle ) to bed her husband emile the french ambassador ( kenneth williams ) . 
when he seems unwilling , she is given his permission to bed anyone she likes , such as the prime minister and the u . s . ambassador . 
her antics get her into trouble and the british press spread these rumours all over their front pages . 
she is invited to talk on television to set the record straight but only confirms the rumours instead . 
meanwhile , theodore valentine ( larry dann ) is in love with emmannuelle after a chance encounter in the toilet of the concorde and is determined to marry her . 
however , she is only interested in restoring her husband's ardour which seems a little difficult after emile's accident with a church spire ! 
this film is the second worst carry on movie , the worst being 'carry on england' . 
it is embarassing to see some of the remaining regulars struggle through this diabolical script by lance peters and try to pull off some of the crude and tasteless jokes that he has written . 
newcomers suzanne danielle and beryl reid ( as mrs . valentine ) are mildly funny , but larry dann as theodore is excruciatingly bad . 
kenneth williams only appears in a few scenes and his lacklustre performance is warranted , given the script . 
the small parts for jack douglas as lyons the butler , joan sims as mrs . dangle , kenneth connor as leyland the chauffeur , and peter butterworth as richmond , are worthless and embarassing . 
in fact , all four parts are surplus to requirements . 
however , the only humourous scene in the film is when the four of them and emmannuelle talk about their most amourous escapades . 
an awful script , a terrible collection of jokes , very poor production values ( especially the scene where emmannuelle takes her clothes off at st . james palace ) , a ludicrous and cringeworthy musical score , and a non-existent plot or storyline . 
its just a succession of awful set pieces about who emmannuelle will bed next ! 
jack douglas is not so annoying but is more boring , joan sims and peter butterworth are wasted , and kenneth connor and kenneth williams put in some poor performances as leyland and emile . 
a complete waste of time , this movie was trying to catch up with the new sexually permissive seventies . 
it was a certificate 15 film but by 1978 , there was little interest in this kind of film and it flopped at the box office and was only given its premiere on uk terrestrial television in april 1998 ! 
avoid at all costs ! 
if you're debating whether or not to see _breakfast_of_champions_ , ask yourself one simple question : do you want to see nick nolte in lingerie ? 
the only people who would get much enjoyment from alan rudolph's chaotic adaptation of the kurt vonnegut novel is the cross-section of the population with the unhealthy urge to see that unpleasant sight . 
everyone else--and i'm hoping that's most people--would be wise to steer clear of this excrutiatingly unfunny mess . 
actually , though , the sight of nolte in high heels is one of the more amusing things about this muddle , which focuses dwayne hoover ( bruce willis ) , the owner of dwayne hoover's exit 11 motor village in midland city . 
not only is he a huge success as a businessman , he's also something of a celebrity , his face made recognizable by an ongoing series of television commercials . 
with a nice home and family to boot , dwayne appears to have it all the ingredients to be happy--yet he's not . 
his wife celia ( barbara hershey ) is perpetually in a pill-induced haze ; his son george ( lukas haas ) is a flamboyant lounge singer who goes by the stage name " bunny . " 
not only that , the environmental protection agency is on dwayne's ass over a building development project . 
it's enough to send dwayne on a nervous breakdown--that is , if he doesn't succeed in blowing his brains out first . 
meanwhile , midland city is about to host a fine arts festival , and the guest of honor is one kilgore trout ( albert finney ) , a writer who is far from the renowned author the festival's organizer ( buck henry ) was led to believe--in fact , he's a penniless hack who writes second-rate sci-fi that appears in porn magazines . 
his trek to midland city is also a spiritual journey , one that reaches its apex after meeting dwayne , who for some reason thinks that trout will hold for him all of life's answers . 
the above is already a longer plot synopsis than i usually give in my reviews , but , ironically , i have barely scratched the surface . 
i haven't yet mentioned wayne hoobler ( omar epps ) , an ex-con with an obsessive admiration for the similarly-named dwayne . 
then there's the matter of francine ( glenne headly ) , dwayne's devoted secretary . 
not to mention dwayne's employee and old friend harry lesabre ( nolte ) , the one with the secret penchant for cross-dressing . 
and so on . 
the film is essentially dwayne's story , but too often rudolph goes on distracting tangents with the eccentric peripheral players that one often wonders what the point is . 
rudolph does arrive at a point ( more on that later ) , but it's blunted and obscured by his hyperactive approach to the material . 
the surreal visual style , complete with printed words flying through the air and into dwayne's ears , is obviously meant to convey a sense of madness , but its bludgeoning nature is likely to make viewers mad . 
the actors are called on to act accordingly , resulting in some of the worst , most overdone work all of them have ever turned in . 
willis fares best of all--but that's because his frozen expression of befuddled bewilderment mirrors that of the audience . 
with such an aggressively outrageous atmosphere for nearly all of its running time , it comes as a shock when things suddenly turn serious , and rudolph tries to make a statement . 
unlike _american_beauty_ ( a film that _breakfast_ resembles in more than a few ways , to its great detriment ) , there isn't any palpably earnest undercurrent that would prepare the audience for the big shift . 
as such , the cartoony characters fail to win a sympathy that needs to be earned ; and the film attempts , to no avail , to reach a profundity that it doesn't deserve . 
vonnegut's original novel is considered a classic , but it had been called unfilmable--the same that was said of hunter s . thompson's _fear_and_loathing_in_las_vegas_ , which was disastrously committed to film last year by terry gilliam . 
with the similar failure of _breakfast_of_champions_ , will hollywood ever learn that books labeled " unfilmable " inevitably results in a film that is unwatchable ? 
likely not . 
suicide is pointless , everyone should know that . 
so what's this movie like ? 
you guessed it . . . 
pointless . 
the virgin suicides focuses on the lives of the five lisbon sisters , from the perspective of the teenage boys who are fascinated by them . 
when the youngest lisbon sister commits suicide , it sets in motion a series of events that will change the lives of many people forever . 
that's what the press materials for the film probably say . 
now here's what i say : the virgin suicides is a huge waste of time . 
boring , arty , pretentious junk that is about as entertaining as . . . 
well as committing suicide . 
the movie lost me early on , immediately following the scene where the younger daughter jumps to her death from her bedroom window . 
the girl's father ( james woods ) holds her lifeless body in his arms as their horrified family looks on . 
then , as the scene ends , the lawn sprinklers come on . 
is that a joke ? 
is that supposed to be amusing in some way ? 
from then on , the movie failed to draw me back in . 
performances are the only saving grace of the virgin suicides . 
woods plays the only character who would actually interest me when he came onscreen , but the performance of kirsten dunst as the next youngest daughter lux is worth mentioning as well . 
dunst has the potential to be a big star , if she chooses her projects well . 
and while this film is awful , she manages to come away from it virtually unscathed . 
there are also a few cameos in the film here and there , which only frustrate the audience as they leave you wanting more . 
as a result , they all seem rather pointless ( although there's a brief role given to michael pare from eddie and the cruisers which turns out to be his best role since . . . 
well since eddie and the cruisers ) . 
perhaps the virgin suicides would have worked had the story not been told from the point of view of people who had very little access to the main characters . 
we never get any significant insight into the girls and why they might be feeling what they're feeling . 
all we really know is that mrs . lisbon ( kathleen turner ) is strict and keeps them on a short leash . 
what mother doesn't ? 
it's certainly no reason to commit suicide . 
with the godfather part iii , sofia coppola proved that she had no business being in front of the camera . 
with the virgin suicides , she proves she has no business behind it either . 
having family connections doesn't entitle you to be allowed to make movies . 
so attention film directors . . . 
stop letting your daughters pout their way into the industry . 
just because they share your dna doesn't mean they share your talent . 
[r] 
the realm of science fiction has always been an allegory of political and or moral sensibilities . 
the best tales of the genre deal with mankind's struggle for survival or knowledge . 
such popular and noteworthy tomes as " stranger in a strange land " by robert heinlein , " childhood's end " by arthur c . clarke and " man in the high castle " and " do androids dream of electric sheep " by philip k . dick all deal with man's need for identity and struggle for self worth . 
hollywood has regularly adapted the milieu ( if not the message ) of science fiction since it's beginnings . 
most films just created fancy pulp tales with no more thought that the escapism they achieved . 
it really wasn't until producer george pal , took charge of robert heinlein's novel " rocketship galileo " and crafted the film " destination moon " , that 'sci-fi' ( as it is commonly referred to ) , came into it's own . 
from there , such diverse filmmakers as roger corman to stanley kubrick , have sought to express ideas through the medium of the genre . 
with the release of touchstone pictures " mission to mars " , we have an unabashedly nonchalant sci-fi film for those who read the national enquirer and the globe . 
the film opens on a summer barbecue , as phil ohlmyer ( jerry o'connell ) woos a young female with his tales of space glory and the upcoming mission . 
woody blake ( tim robbins ) and his wife terri ( connie nielsen ) commit to his coming authority on the mission , and luc goddard ( don cheadle ) consoles his son . 
entering the party is jim mcconnell ( gary sinise ) , who gave up command of the mission due to the untimely death of his wife , maggie ( kim delaney ) . 
luc consoles jim with woody's assistance . 
the three men are friends and carry a fine bond of trust and caring between them . 
but jim still longs to set foot on the red planet . 
the mission is in earnest as luc and his team land in the cydonia region of mars . 
they send out the rover to investigate the area and discover what seems to be water or ice under the surface . 
going out to investigate , luc and his team approach the famed 'face on mars' . 
a strange noise emanates from the rock . 
as the team tries to scan through the rock with radar , a violent wind storm erupts , creating a vortex that kills all members of the team , save for luc . 
back on the space station orbiting earth , woody and jim receive the information that the mars landing team is missing . 
luc's interference laden emergency message urges the two men to attempt a second mission to the red planet in the hopes of rescuing the previous team . 
the second journey to the martian world is fraught with danger . 
meteorite showers , explosions , and rescues all come into play as the intrepid heroes make there way to the planet's surface . 
the big question is , is there now or has there ever been intelligent life on mars . 
and if so , what is its relationship with us ? 
now for the bad news . 
the entire plot of " mission to mars " is based almost wholeheartedly on outdated and preposterous national enquirer type martian civilization tripe . 
the famed 'face on mars' becomes the centerpiece of the film , revealing some of the most harebrained sci-fi pabulum the screen has witnessed . 
borrowing ideas from such films as " robinson crusoe on mars " ( 1964 ) , quatermass and the pit ( 1967 ) , " 2001 : a space odyssey " , and even mario bava's " planet of the vampires " ( 'terrore nello spazio' ) ( 1965 ) , " mission to mars " is a hodgepodge of ideas that don't add up to a satisfying whole . 
while some sequences are wonderfully handled and executed , the film remains flat and un-involving . 
so much time is giving to establishing the lead characters in the film , but to no good use . 
the performances are all workmen like , with only don cheadle ( as luc ) carrying any sort of real chemistry . 
gary sinise is wasted in role that requires him to look as if he is experiencing sleep depravation . 
and the mistaken idea of having jerry o'connell ( as phil ohlmyer ) play his part for comic relief is just too painful to excuse . 
and the less said about tim robbins called in from home performance the better . 
he's just having too much fun here to give a damn . 
the script has a few lapses , namely that after discovering several breaches in the hull of the ship caused by a meteorite shower , no one thinks of checking the fuel tanks or the remainder of the ship for damage . 
this of course leads to our heroes having to abandon their rescue ship . 
also , when one character sacrifices himself , the character takes on a religious demeanor that is completely at odds with the situation . 
but the biggest offence in the film is the horrid , intrusive score by ennio morricone . 
subtlety is non-existent here . 
in fact in some scenes the music becomes so extravagant that dialogue is almost drowned out . 
the only sequence in which the score almost works is during the protracted meteorite shower . 
the pacing of the film is very leisurely . 
after the opening introduction of the characters ( which lasts a full 22 minutes ) , we are finally dropped onto the martian surface . 
then , there is another long pause in the plot for more character development , including an elaborate dance sequence in zero gravity . 
the film could lose about 30 minutes and actually gain some momentum . 
there are so many scenes of talking heads , discussing what we already know is going to happen , that it drags the film to a dead stop . 
the good news is that the film is absolutely sumptuous to look at . 
the vistas of the planet mars are majestic and awe inspiring . 
the design of the numerous spacecraft and suits are all expertly drafted , with a level of realism that hasn't been seen since " 2001 : a space odyssey " . 
the visual effects are just stunning , from the space walk sequences , to the visualization of evolution on earth . 
the only fault come with the martians themselves , which look more like something out of a plastic model kit than something from another world . 
director de palma stages some wonderfully creative scenes through out the film . 
the opening sequence alone in a seemingly un-interrupted cut lasting almost 15 minutes ( an homage' to hitchcock's " rope " ) , as we are introduced to all of the characters . 
scenes in the rescue ship , with its rotating centrifuge , are just amazing in their execution . 
but the nagging question , is the final explanation worth all of this sturm und drang . 
sadly it is not . 
director brian de palma has crafted an extravagant production . 
the set design and visual effects are all arresting . 
but it's the comic strip denouncement that ruin what might have been a fine return to good adventurous , thought provoking science fiction . 
a disappointing film , but one that might still entertain if you can settle for the visuals . 
back in february at the monthly los angeles comic book and science fiction convention , new line cinema put on a lavish presentation for its big-screen update of the cult 1960s sci-fi tv show lost in space , complete with in-person appearances by cast members mimi rogers , matt leblanc , lacey chabert , jack johnson , and even gary oldman . 
that should have set off my warning alarms--the last time such an extravagant film presentation took place at the convention was nearly five years ago , when none other than arnold schwarzenegger made an in-person cameo to peddle . . . 
last action hero . 
but no , like millions of others , i bought into the hype and " got lost . " 
if only i had gotten lost--literally--on the way to theatre and spared myself the tedium of this sloppily slapped-together blockbuster wannabe . 
you may find yourself wondering if director stephen hopkins and screenwriter akiva goldsman were lost themselves when they made the film . 
at the convention , goldsman claimed to be a rabid fan of the original television series , and if that really is the case , i'd hate to see what he does with concepts he only has mild interest in . 
to say that his script lacks narrative cohesion is to imply that there is a narrative to begin with--which there most certainly is not . 
after the setup , in which the robinson family--father john ( william hurt , looking and sounding as spaced out as he does in interviews ) , mother maureen ( rogers , wasted ) , daughters judy ( heather graham , ditto ) and penny ( a heavily made-up chabert , looking like a junior version of neve campbell in wild things ) , and son will ( young newcomer johnson , making the best of it ) --and pilot don west ( leblanc , doing a bad han solo impression ) find themselves lost in space after their ship is sabotaged by evil stowaway dr . smith ( a watered-down but still-lively oldman , cashing a paycheck and loving every minute ) , the script's " stream " of events becomes so fragmented and random that it seems to be made up as it goes along--and hopkins does little to make what does go on the slightest bit interesting . 
they encounter another ship . 
they board it . 
alien spiders attack them . 
they return to their ship . 
the other one explodes . 
they land on a deserted planet . 
and so on . 
an attempt at a plot involving time travel occurs in the third act , but goldsman doesn't seem to understand the rules that come with using such a story device ; when one character's past self dies , the future incarnation inexplicably lives on . 
the look and effects should be lost in space's ace-in-the-hole , but hopkins even manages to botch that . 
for a big-budget film , the visual effects are incredibly shoddy . 
in one composite background shot , i could see the blue outline around oldman ; the various digital effects for the space battle scenes look like . . . 
digital effects . 
but nothing in those shots is as jaw-droppingly unconvincing as blawp , a monkey-like space creature that becomes penny's pet . 
entirely computer-generated and every inch showing it , blawp looks like it was lifted directly from a sony playstation game . 
apparently hopkins thought the same and tried desperately to hide it ; how else can one explain the graininess of blawp's composite shots with the human actors ? 
but in doing so , the seams are that much more obvious . 
you have to be severely visually impaired to not be distracted when a grainy shot of penny and blawp is immediately followed by a crystal-clear solo reaction shot of judy . 
new line is hoping lost in space will become a big franchise much like the long-running star trek cash cow at paramount . 
i don't think so . 
in a few years , the lost in space movie will likely live on not as a series but as the obscure answer to a trivia question : what film ended titanic's 15-week reign at the top of the weekend box office ? 
the working title for no looking back was long time , nothing new , and rarely has there been a more apt name for a motion picture . 
even though this movie clocks in at a relatively skinny 96 minutes , it seems to run long enough to engulf two titanics . 
writer/director edward burns has trotted out a hackneyed storyline , the trajectory of which will be instantly recognizable to anyone who hasn't spent their life in seclusion . 
instead of tweaking the formula a little to invigorate the proceedings , burns is content to allow the film to ramble aimlessly towards its irritatingly predictable conclusion , offering precious few momentary pleasures along the way . 
no looking back is dominated by three very dislikable characters whose constant presence on the screen is painful . 
the most appropriate ending would have been a triple suicide , and the sooner , the better . 
alas , that's not the case , and those who stick with this film for its entire length will be forced to endure the prolonged company of this wretched trio . 
and , to further depress audiences , burns has shot the entire film on cold , rainy days in a gray new york state beach town . 
peeks of sunshine are few and far between . 
no wonder the characters are all so miserable . 
first of all , we have charlie ( burns ) , a generation x slacker who abandoned his girlfriend three years ago after she had an abortion , then spent some time bumming around in california before deciding to come home . 
that girlfriend is claudia ( lauren holly ) , and , after picking up the pieces of her life following charlie's departure , she has moved on , shacking up with one of charlie's old school buddies , mike ( jon bon jovi ) . 
the two have a comfortable relationship , but it's apparent to even a blind person that they're not right for each other . 
claudia years for some spice in her life ; mike wants to settle down and have children . 
then charlie re-enters the mix . 
so who , if anyone , will claudia end up with ? 
who cares ? ? 
no looking back goes to extraordinary lengths to make sure that we're not especially interested in the outcome of the romantic triangle . 
so what if no one finds happiness -- these characters don't deserve it anyway , especially after wasting 90 minutes of our time . 
they aren't real people -- they're a writer's construct stumbling through a too-obvious storyline . 
they should know the ending as well as we do . 
and burns should have given his audience more credit and presented them with a plot that at least offered a surprise or two . 
another frustrating thing about no looking back is that burns has populated the film with a group of potentially-interesting supporting characters . 
blythe danner is solid as claudia's housebound mother , connie britton is suitably high-strung as claudia's neurotic sister , and jennifer esposito is eye-catching as a bartender in search of a little romance . 
sadly , all we get is quick glimpses into their lives , although a movie about any of them would have been far more intriguing than the story burns has chosen to tell . 
none of the lead performers are going to wow critics with their thespian attributes . 
edward burns is pushing the edge of his limited range here . 
jon bon jovi shows more acting ability than one might reasonably expect from a singer branching into a different career , but he could still use a little polish . 
the worst case is lauren holly , who presents a completely bland claudia . 
as portrayed here , she's hardly the kind of woman who would inspire even a moment's interest , not to mention undying love . 
burns' ex , the monumentally untalented maxine bahns , would have been hard-pressed to do a less inspired job . 
when he released the brothers mcmullen , edward burns was revered as the wunderkind of the 1995 sundance film festival ( robert redford has apparently stuck with him -- the aging actor/director executive produced this mess ) . 
two films and three short years later , the luster has faded . 
some movie makers have only one good film in them . 
with back- to-back duds like she's the one and no looking back to follow the delightful brothers , burns is beginning to look like a member of that undistinguished club . 
the job of the film critic is to see a movie and write a review of it that tells you what it's about and why it's good or bad . 
i feel kind of embarrassed to admit this , but i after having seen " get carter " i really can't tell you what it's about although i could go on and on about how and why it's a bad movie . 
 " get carter " falls into that category of ? movies that continue to be made for reasons unknown to anyone outside of a hollywood executive board room . 
you might call them the " steven seagal/mickey rourke/jean-claude van damme/wesley snipes school of mediocre action/crime thrillers . " 
you know - the potboilers that are heavy on fistfights , shoot-outs and car chases but really light on plot and character development . 
they have stories where the so-called hero just keeps running into characters who have some connection to one of the other characters who are all antagonists without a reason for being in the movie other than to give the protagonist someone to fight , chase or shoot at . 
sylvester stallone stars as jack carter , a las vegas-based mob enforcer who returns home * for his brother's funeral . 
he believes his brother ? richie was " taken out " and didn't die from a dwi accident . 
carter's one of the most cliche bad-asses ever captured on celluloid . 
his face alone is pretty intimidating and there's quite a few scenes in which he leans on both regular citizens and criminal lowlives simply by staring them down and speaking with confidence in his " rambo-on-testosterone-therapy " voice . 
stallone's performance in this movie is so forced and unnatural he doesn't realize he's mocking himself . 
the actual story involves carter's investigation into his brother richie's death . 
he's in a town that's not his but somehow the local top dogs know him very well . 
mickey rourke co-stars as one of these characters , a sort of crime boss who has something to do with running a porno web site and blackmailing a young internet tycoon ( played by alan cummings looking and acting a lot like pee wee herman ) . 
there's also another plot involving richie's mistress , a secret cd-rom with some convicting and disturbing evidence on it and something terrible involving one of carter's still-living relatives . 
i'm rolling my eyes just thinking about trying to critique all this in a way that could be remotely comprehendible . 
i could just rip the screenplay to shreds , plus the direction or the editing or the production values but that would require discussion of nearly every scene in order to explain it all . 
i don't like to put spoliers in my reviews either intentionally or accidentally . 
yes , " get carter " is just that complicated and complex . 
and what's worse is that it's not this intricate to make it seem smart like " the usual suspects " for example - just the opposite . 
you get the feeling whoever wrote this script did it in short intervals spaced far apart and they probably didn't remember what had already happened and didn't figure out how each scene would lead in to the next one or how the major plot points would work towards the climax . 
all you really need to know is that most of the film is just scenes of carter tracking down one scumbag or supposed witness after another , asking them what they know , getting information and then realizing that if he wasn't a complete idiot he could have figured it out in the first five minutes . 
although the supporting characters are equally stupid themselves since they tell him everything which comes back to haunt them in one violent way or another . 
making a movie entirely about criminals doesn't necessarily mean they have to be unlikable and cliche cutout characters . 
mel gibson starred in " payback " a few years ago that had a story not unlike this one but had such a good screenplay you couldn't help but like him even though he was just as bad a guy as jack carter . 
so ultimately " get carter " fails for pretty much every selling point it has . 
carter is not a likable character and you really don't care if he gets revenge or not . 
the action sequences are not at all exciting or original . 
the enemies and their massive conspiracy are not threatening at all ( c'mon , you know who's going to win every brawl and shoot-out and car chase ) . 
in the end you don't feel nearly satisfied with the results . 
the filmmakers did a good job in doing everything as unoriginal as possible . 
 * the city is never mentioned by name but i assume it's seattle since all the cars have washington license plates and it's always raining . 
i've got to admit it . . . 
i'm a huge jim carrey fan . 
i loved the first ace ventura , as well as the mask and dumb and dumber--and even in batman forever ( which was a pretty awful movie ) , carrey was one of the few people to come off looking reasonably good . 
until i saw ace ventura 2 , i had no idea how people could find the guy annoying . 
sadly , ace ventura 2 shows just how irritating and annoying carrey can be . 
carrey goes through the same schtick he went through in the first ace movie , but this time it is no longer funny--it is just a rehash of many of the same jokes used in ace i . 
the plot sees pet detective ace ventura retiring after failing to save a raccoon ( in a reasonable cliffhanger spoof ) . 
soon he is called out of retirement to find a bat which was kidnapped and , if not returned in four days , will cause two warring african tribes to destroy each other . 
once again , it's up to ace to save the day , using his uncanny detective skills . 
those who have been disappointed by carrey's more restrained roles in the films following the first ace ventura may be glad to see him over-acting to the best of his ability , but some may be disappointed by the fact that this sequel doesn't capture the feel of the original . 
the original benefited from what looked to be carrey's constant hyped-up improv sequences , which were hysterically funny . 
here , however , the tighter script ( which is reminiscent of the old disney telemovies ) takes the improvised material from the first , and shamelessly recycles it in the new movie , giving carrey little chance to improvise . 
instead , his extremely funny manner has been reduced to just walking around stupidly . 
but one of the biggest problems i had was with the character of ventura himself . 
in the first movie , he was always cool , and one step ahead of every one else--perfect for carrey's off-the-wall approach . 
but here , ventura is made to look a lot stupider , and is often made out as the straight guy--a role which is definitely not carrey's style . 
there are definitely some very funny moments , but they are few and far between . 
they are also nowhere near as funny as anything carrey did in the first ace ventura , or even dumb and dumber . 
for about twenty minutes into mission impossible 2 director john woo ( the killer , hard boiled , face off ) appears to have made an exciting , elegant , charming spy thriller , kind of a post millennium james bond adventure with a strapping american ( read : unsophisticated ) hero more willing to drop kick villains than out fox them . 
sadly , as the picture progresses , the final product begins to bear a closer resemblance to a souped up , two-hour long episode of magyuver . 
and not a particularly good one at that . 
what went wrong ? 
mi2 begins flashily enough , that initial flash leading us to believe that it'll soon give way to something of a plot , but it only gives way to more flash , then digresses further into a presumably unintentional parody of itself with much slo mo posturing and countless action set pieces wherein bad guys seem to deliberately leap into the way of tom cruise's firing gun just so they can die really cool . 
early on , during a car chase between soon to be lovers ethan hunt ( tom cruise ) and nyah nordoff-hall ( thandie newton ) , woo works some of his trademark magic . 
in one hypnotic , though completely inexplicable sequence , the director slows the action down to a languid semi-stall as cruise and his stunning opponent stare into one and other's eyes with come hither sexuality ? ? ? just as their respective cars smash and spin in accordance , coming ever so close to toppling over a neighboring cliff . 
prior to this we see the famed trailer opener of cruise climbing a steep mountain , sans scaffolding , then leaping from one jagged rock formation to another . 
why ? 
i haven't the foggiest . 
i doubt even john woo could provide you with a logical reply . 
with mi2 woo has become a slave to the summer movie machine , the one that jettisons logic for gravity defying effects and story for more gravity defying effects . 
it's possible that these " spies " could be adrenaline junkies climbing mountains and crashing into each other as means to get off , though of course this is never explored . 
the scenes i've described are really only included to titillate , not to give any insight into character . 
god forbid . 
woo certainly knows how to make each set piece energetic , but they remain individual set pieces never connecting to form anything more than splices of beer commercial-like visuals . 
still in terms of crackerjack eye candy , the opening has much to cherish . 
cruise and newton first meet during a vigorous flamenco dance featuring several welcome woo devices ( the graceful slow mo artistry of synchronized movement juxtaposed against the stage 1 romance of two attractive individuals discovering how attractive the other is ) . 
between the frantic dancing , woo trains his camera on cruise and newton as they make with some sensuous eye contact . 
the scene is a little over the top in a bon jovi music video circa 1988 kind of way , yet it has style and something of soul , and woo casts a bit of a spell on us . 
sure it's all smoke and mirrors , but we can see that there happens to be a talented maestro behind this particular product . 
thandie and cruise later meet in a bathtub in a scene that's about half as playfully charming as the jennifer lopez \ george cloony trunk meeting in out of sight . 
they flirt and exchange obvious double entendres . 
newton bats her eyes flirtatiously . 
cruise grins a little too slyly . 
the cruise character , ethan hunt , has been drastically altered since the first film . 
here cruise plays him more as a hip , sexual dynamo than the square jawed robot he impersonated in part 1 . 
he's cool and dashing , which is precisely the kind of role we want to see cruise in after watching him sleep walk through eyes wide shut ( which might just be the longest episode of red show diaries ever committed to film ) , and blustered his way through magnolia ( quite possibly the most overrated performance of the 90's ) . 
sadly as the film progresses we see less of cruise's initial " i'm the man ! " 
charm and more slo-mo close-ups of his preening mug . 
mi2 falls apart on nearly every level during its repetitious third act , which is essentially one hour long action sequence that just won't stop . 
the whole thing commences with an utterly generic gun battle ( the first gun fight in the film ) , which really should be unheard of in a john woo film , but alas this particular battle could've been staged by anyone from renny harlin to joseph merhi ( of course excepting the " symbolic " pigeons who seem to find their way into every john woo picture ) . 
we've all seen guys slide across the floor in slo mo while firing a gun in each hand . 
it isn't done any differently here . 
the action is pure hard target \ broken arrow theatrics with nothing to propel it but the apparent need to see tom cruise drop kick face less villains while his hair whips stylishly in the wind . 
he's cool for sure but he's made to be as empty as the movie . 
the actor isn't used so much for his boyish appeal as for his chiseled looks ; he smiles narcissistically into the camera at literally any moment , be it during a gunfight , before one or after one . 
when he's not beaming away , he's staring into the lens with cold eyes trying to look mad as hell , but woo's editing seriously undermines the effort . 
he fetishizes cruise's angular face with such glee that it turns into a naked gun style spoof . 
i half expected cruise to peel off his facemask and reveal that he's really austin powers . 
in a classic woo action moment , ethan hunt struts past a fiery doorway glaring at the baddies within its frame like a pin-up boy angel of death . 
the gunfight turns into a daring escape which turns into a reckless mission which turns into a motorcycle attack in which bad guys seem to angle directly for cruise to kill them like some kind of mass suicide ritual ( one dumb bastard even jumps his bike over the gun toting cruise , basically inviting our handsome hero to shoot him in mid air which he does ) . 
the lead bad guy ( played by the appropriately british dougray scott ) and cruise face off in a mentally deficient game of chicken ? ? ? on motorcycles . 
though instead of jumping off to the side at the last moment , the two grown men leap directly into the other giving each other a mid air bear hug , only to fly about a hundred feet ( still in bear hug position ) , land on a beach below and begin a mano-e-mano fist fight that ends with the bad guy pulling a " so you thought i was dead . . . " . 
not to worry , cruise takes care of the problem without even breaking a sweat . 
what a hero ! 
you may have noticed that i opted not to describe an iota of mi2's plot . 
my reasoning is simple : i'm not sure of any good it would do . 
the film itself has absolutely no concern with story , only with hurtling forth to the next " special " effect . 
i wasn't kidding when i told a friend of mine that mi2 has less plot than the average aerosmith video . 
nobody will go to this for the plot , and if they do they'll surely regret it . 
as summer movies evolve ( or devolve ) character and plot have become increasingly whittled down to nearly nothing . 
in mi , the plot seemed to be built around brian de palma's ( that film's director ) stylistic flourishes , while in mi2 the plot only serves to give us an intermittent breather from woo's non-stop masturbatory pandemonium . 
it's irrelevant in every sense , as is character . 
all that ultimately matters are those pesky smoke and mirrors . 
every now and then , reviewers are faced with the films that are hard to be properly reviewed . 
most of the time it happens with films that leave so overwhelming impact , either good or bad , that in the end reviewers must work hard to express his thoughts or feelings . 
but , sometimes it can happen for rather trivial reasons . 
i love trouble happened to be one of such occasions for the author of this review . 
the impression left by the film wasn't overwhelming - on the contrary , there were hardly any impression at all , since i had real trouble keeping myself awake while watching it . 
which surprise me to this day , because the movie theatre was full , i was close to sound speakers , the show wasn't late and i didn't lack sleep before the show . 
such things happen very rarely to me , and , after many years , the closest thing to solution to this mystery is probably the quality of the film itself . 
the plot revolves around two rival chicago reporters - old peter brackett ( nick nolte ) and young , aspiring sabrina peterson ( julia roberts ) . 
two of them are assigned to cover the train collision . 
as soon as they meet , they start scooping each other , but during the process they both discover sinister plot involving cancerogenic milk , and also the romantic feelings they have for each other . 
the plot in this film is rather secondary to its real raison d' ? tre - romantic pairing reminiscent of classical screwball comedies starring spencer tracy and katharine hepburn . 
movie author , director and screenwriter charles shyer , who had some experiences with turning the screwball spirit into modern setting with father of the bride , tries again , this time pairing old nick nolte with young julia roberts . 
however , although there is some chemistry between the two , soon it stops to arouse any interest . 
it probably happens due to poorly executed genre mix , that collides light-hearted romantic comedy with rather uninteresting plot suitable to pure action thrillers . 
shyer as director fails to make the proper transition between the two , and fails in both areas , making the story cliched and predictable . 
the end result is rather forgettable effort , which convinced me not to watch movie again . 
i'll give it the benefit of the doubt , though . 
the only two really good things that i can say about tarzan and the lost city are as follows : jane march was very cute as jane , and the movie was thankfully under 90 minutes in length . 
if you haven't already figured it out , i didn't like this movie very much . 
the plot was boring and contrived to the extreme . 
tarzan ( casper van dien ) has now left the jungle and living in civilized society . 
he is just days away from his impending marriage to jane , played by the aptly named jane march . 
back in his former home of africa , a group of looters has found the key to locating a lost city . 
 ( mind you i never really figured out why they actually wanted to find this city . ) 
anyway , tarzan's old jungle friend appears to him in a vision . 
tarzan realizes that he must return to africa to help stop the bad guys from finding the lost city . 
he leaves jane ( his first mistake , in my opinion ) and travels to africa . 
of course , jane is hot on her ape man's heals . 
the two of them are reunited in africa where they do battle with the bad guys . 
sound like a dumb explanation of the plot ? 
it's actually an improvement over the real thing . 
the acting is just plain awful . 
i'm not quite sure what casper van dien was doing in this film , but it wasn't acting . 
jane march wasn't a heck of a lot better , but at least she is easy on the eyes . 
compounding the bad acting was the fact that in many places the dialogue had obviously been re-recorded , and i've seen better dubbing in some old bruce lee movies . 
added to the sound problems was the cinematography . 
this film was filled with beautiful african scenery . 
but the panoramic scenery shots looked overexposed to me . 
quite frankly , i think you could probably do a better job capturing the beauty of africa with a camcorder than this bunch did with professional film equipment . 
then we have the special effects . 
 " special effects in a tarzan movie ? " 
you are no doubt asking yourself ? 
yes friends , the writers injected some very out of place supernatural elements into the story . 
probably for the sake of using cgi , since it did nothing but hurt the story . 
in most parts , they weren't bad , just nothing special . 
but , they were more than a little on the hokey side . 
except of course , when we got to the ridiculous climax of this movie . 
the grand finale's special effects went right into the toilet at that point . 
it almost looked like they had run out of money . 
these effects were of noticeably lower quality than those in the rest of the film and looked like something in an amateur video production . 
i took one lesson away from watching tarzan and the lost city -- ape men and bones that morph into skeletal warriors don't mix . 
stay far away from this version of tarzan . 
silly performances and some huge gaps in logic mar an otherwise interesting tale of an eclectic group of people stranded at " the last stop cafe and motel " due to heavy snowfall . 
one of the stranded is a colorado state highway patrolman ( adam beach ) who discovers a murder scene and a bag full of cash from a recent bank robbery . 
someone amongst the group of strangers is a bank robber and a murderer , but is it the same person or are there multiple criminals ? 
adam beach unfortunately was the wrong choice for the lead in this film . 
he doesn't play the role with enough seriousness to be believable or enough goofiness for it to be funny . 
his performance is stuck somewhere in the middle , and this film really needed it to be on one side or the other . 
rose mcgowan is cold and unpleasant to the eye as always , and jurgen prochnow . . . 
what on earth is he doing in this ? 
best performance comes from william s . taylor as a cheesy ( yet still somehow cool and confident ) wayne newton drifter type . 
the last stop is available on dvd from sterling home entertainment . 
as usual with sterling , they've filled out this dvd with extra features . 
the disc contains the film in its original aspect ratio of 1 . 85 : 1 , a choice of 2 . 0 dolby surround sound or 5 . 1 dolby digital surround sound , a full length audio commentary track with director mark malone , interviews with the cast and crew , the original trailer , and the usual cast and crew biographies . 
the film itself might not be the greatest , but sterling's effort of adding decent extra features while keeping the price affordable ( suggested retail of $19 . 95 ) makes this dvd worth the money . 
[r] 
so i went and saw this film right , it was called " battlefield : earth " , i was never interested in the previews , and never too terribly interested in the book , nor do i find scientology interesting , but after reading advanced reviews of how bad this film really is , i had that weird urge just to watch it . 
well let me be the first to say , and so far in my view it's safe to say : battlefield : earth might be the worst film i have ever seen , yes even worse than " mr . magoo " , " blue in the face " , or " jaws : the revenge " . 
roger christianson whos credits include set direction , and art direction for such great films as " alien " and " star wars " , directs this film with such amateurism , that the film looks and feels and in fact sounds so dumb , that it's quite depressing . 
the look of the film , is dark and drabby at times , but then bright and happy at other times . 
the sound is terrible , and has the worst surround sound effects i've heard . 
the acting is nothing , the dialogue poor , and the make-up effects hideous . 
here's the so-called plot : earth 3000 . . . . man is a endangered species , while aliens from the planet psychlo ( the aliens are named psychlo . . . i 
wonder why ? ! ) are invading earth , destined to put an end to those " man-animals " to an end , and destroy earth once and for all , of course we have our typical hero ( played terrible by barry pepper , who was great in a small role in 1999's " the green mile " ) who is destined to go out , and save his planet ! 
one thing : he has to go up against , terl , the chief of security psychlo , who is played frankly , quite bad by john travolta , whom with dreadlocks , a big head , and green eyes just doesn't work . 
of course the sidekick to terl , is played by ( lol ! ! ) 
forest whitaker , who looks like a deformed werewolf of some kind . 
our friendly human johnny ( barry pepper ) looks just as bad as well , with long scraggly hair . 
i'm not really sure how to quite explain the badness of this film , except just to say it's terrible . 
everything in this film is imcomprehinsable , from the make-up effects , which by the way aren't good , to the phony looking special effects , everything in this film is faulted . 
in fact i don't remember one part in this entire movie where i was having a good time , or enjoying myself . 
in fact there is no part in the movie that i liked or enjoyed . 
throughout the entire 127 minute running time , i was dying , constantly looking at my watch , and hoping maybe the projectioner would blow a bulb or something , sadly it didn't . 
my advice to hollywood : get new scripts , new acting classes , better directors and damnit , make films like american beauty more . 
by phil curtolo " madonna - antonio banderas - jonathan price - in an alan parker film - with music from andrew lloyd weber - and lyrics by tim rice - evita . " 
now i have to admit , the trailer for this rock-opera-turned-major motion picture is almost breath-taking for some . 
the soundtrack is wonderful to listen to . 
so why wouldn't the movie be wonderful to see . 
simple , a little over 2 hours of constant singing can almost drive you insane . 
the story of eva duarte ( madonna ) , evita is full of drama that's trapped inside by all the notes and chords . 
she was an orphaned child who ends up becoming a hooker , then goes into the field of acting , and finally meets juan peron ( price ) , the soon-to-be first president of argentina . 
they fall in love and eventually marry . 
sounds pretty good , doesn't it . 
well the story gets better , as eva goes on the " rainbow tour " across europe , trying to win respect . 
eva duarte was a wonderful lady . 
however , all of the drama-packed moments above were never understood because the actors and actresses sang to fast to be understood . 
i went into theater 4 at magic cinemas with the attitude that evita was going to be terribly boring and i left with happy , because i was right . 
they only thing that kept me awake during the movie was the loud bangs of the drums and strums of the guitar . 
although it did come off as dull , the beautiful cinematography is eye-catching , as was madonna's performance . 
as the " spiritual leader of argentina , " madonna would have definitely been an oscar-contender had she spoken a single line . 
but her chance was taken away with the stubbornness of making an exact replica of the broadway musical a film . 
don't get me wrong and don't look at my grade . 
i am not a big fan of musicals on the big screen . 
if you're going to pay to see a movie , you want to see a movie . 
now i have to admit , it's a lot cheaper to pay $5 than $200 plus to see the play , but that's what did me in . 
all this review contains is my opinion and my grade was set before i even saw the movie . 
now you may be saying , " what kind of critic is he ? , " 
and you're right . 
as a critic , i should have given the movie a chance . 
but as a 17-year old quentin tarantino fan , it was way too hard . 
 , 
i have never seen a man so in love with himself than george lucas . 
with the overt success of the three original star wars films , lucas has become , not necessarily a filmmaker , but the head cheeze at a huge toy company , with the phantom menace the new product on the shelve . 
only this toy was made for $115 million , but every kid wants it , and , like all other expensive toys , falls apart within an hour after playing with it . 
the product in question , star wars episode 1 : the phantom menace ( jeez ! ) , is pure and simple : its about the money , baby ! 
no one in their right mind would create such a fiasco if they knew it wouldn't make a ton of money before its fourth week of release . 
i come to the sw franchise as a stranger , since i have absolutely no idea why the sw movies are so popular . 
i find them rather boring and full of nothing but eye candy . 
phantom menace is like the first sw , minus 10 . 
nothing in the whole concept is remotely enjoyable . 
even the special effects seem rather bland . 
the story in this new one is a mindless mess . . . the 
acting wooden . . . and the action sequences like something out of a video game . 
sw : phantom menace is one of the worst films of the year so far . 
with a title like sw e1 : tpm , lucas has one big head on those shoulders . 
i thought chris carter did for releasing an x-files movie , although , that movie adaptation was an excellent way to spend two hours . 
pm is one long headache . 
an affluent horse breeder's past comes up to haunt him ; an ages old cover-up and blackmail comes back to haunt him at the hands of one of his accomplices . 
that's pretty much the essence of the movie and i have to say that it becomes quite boring at times and is very slow . 
that aside the story was well presented and probably quite close and representative of its source . 
the acting in particular i found very good , the character development was also quite interesting but alas the story simply did not hold my interest enough for me to get into the movie . 
a few things about the story didn't sit very well with me for example the original scam and cover-up heavily involved the character played by sharon stone , yet in the end her character played a relatively small role and it seems she should have been utilized more to further the story along better . 
on the flip side the character played by catherine keener i found to be very interesting and i thought that it was developed very well and helped the story a lot . 
the character's aside this movie had some interesting merits but in the end it lacked in story and pacing . 
as far as the acting and casting for this movie is concerned i have to say that the choices of nick nolte and jeff bridges were great as well as that of catherine keener . 
all these people acted their parts admirably , as for the part that sharon stone played , she played it well but the part was not utilized enough . 
the directing for this movie is something that i have to comment on because for once in a long while you see a director actually add a very distinctive flavor to a movie , this is one of those occasions . 
matthew warchus in my opinion added an interesting touch and spin to the movie and i think he tackled a touch subject ( i myself wouldn't be able to look at horseracing and make a movie out of it ) . 
there is a certain flavor about this movie and i think that the direction of the movie is the reason for this . 
the one flaw that i do have to comment on is the pacing , the subject matter in my opinion wasn't interesting enough on its own to have this kind of flavoring and directorial touch about it . 
i certainly hope that the director makes more movies as this does show promise even if i myself don't like it . 
all in all i found this movie boring and very slow , the acting was good but the story just didn't evolve enough and wasn't captivating enough to make simpatico an enjoyable movie to watch . 
although there is much going for the movie i didn't find it good even though i see the merits and style used and can compliment the movie on them . 
i wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone but if you are a horse fanatic or a racing fanatic then you will most likely enjoy this movie . 
a fullyloaded entertainment review : website coming soon ! 
hunter s . thompson's fear and loathing in las vegas , written in 1971 , is already an american classic ; not merely because it was an unadulterated journey through the post-psychedelia of the 1960's , but also because it ushered in a new form of journalism known as " gonzo " . 
soon after the book was written , hunter s . thomspon became the basis for a character in doonesbury known as uncle duke . 
and that is the problem with fear and loathing in las vegas ( the movie . ) 
although the book is one of my favorites , i now agree with thompson's own assessment of the novel as " unfilmable . " 
the main problem is that the book , although detailing wild drug use and tripped-out adventures , was not written on the road . 
it was written and edited by hunter s . thomspons , relatively sober , at his home . 
so although the book depicts drug use and still more drug use , it is told with a sense of aloofness and some humor . 
hunter s . thomspon , the narrator , while always drugged out , still has a grip on reality , and can still tell , with journalistic ability , what is going on around him . 
not so with the characters in fear and loathing in las vegas . 
despite name changes and one minor scene from the book dropped , the movie is an exact duplicate of the book , in terms of dialouge . 
unfortunately , this can get annoying , in the form of johnny depp's ( who plays thompson ) excessive narration . 
and the characters , while having vivid personalities , are played as 2-d characers on the screen : dr . raoul duke ( johnny depp , the name raoul duke was an alias of thompson's ) and his riding companion , dr . gonzo ( benicio del toro ) , who is a large samoan lawyer , have no personalities or emotions at all , save for stoned . 
the film is very faithful to the plot ( what there is ) of the book , in that dr . raoul duke is sent by sports illustrated to cover the mint 400 , and takes along not only his samoan lawyer but also car trunk full of drugs . 
from there , one set of stoned adventures after another happens , including one of the few good scenes in which depp , high on acid , watches all the people in the bar around him turn into , literally , lounge lizards . 
while the movie has its moments ( few ) , it is almost unwatchable at parts , especially towards the end . 
despite a lot of celebrity cameos , the stars never get off the ground . 
the set decoration and costumes are great , and probably deserve an oscar nomination . 
however , as we all know , it's not sets or effects that make a movie , its the characters ; and quite frankly , these characters are no good . 
filmmakers will use all manner of tricks to flesh out and brighten up a dull , dreary , and overused idea . 
doug liman ( swingers ) , director of the ultra-hip and severely dark comedy go , is an example of just such a filmmaker . 
in his latest , he gives the viewers a raucous , neon-lit backdrop as cinematographer and points the audience down a drug-infested path of misadventure as director . 
but he fails to come up with any parallel structure in his multi-tiered movie and he fails to connect with the audience on any level , bringing the worth of his efforts to nil and the value of go to about the same . 
his movie is produced anthology-style -- telling the same story from multiple ( three ) points of view , much as an author might write a serial novel . 
consistent with this ethic , liman and screenwriter john august provide a bit of an overlap at the beginning of each narrative and insert brief connections to other narratives . 
the thread that laces the three stories together is a drug deal and the events thereafter . 
in story a we have checkout clerk ronna ( sarah polley ) looking to score some rent money and turning to drug trafficking to do it ; in story b we have regular drug dealer simon ( desmond askew ) gone to las vegas giving ronna her opportunity ; and in story c we have gay soap actors zack ( jay mohr ) and adam ( scott wolf ) working undercover for the police to bust said drug deal . 
neither of the three stories have much substance , and the movie has the feel of a campfire story ( albeit a rather strange one ) that could be told in five to ten minutes . 
 ( in fact , the movie was originally a short film entitled x expanded to feature length . ) 
the early april release date is too mistimed to capitalize on the movie's christmas setting , and the los angeles/las vegas nightlife is something too far from the mainstream for most theater-goers to attach themselves to . 
the characters are shallow to the point of prerequisite , and performances from little-known players like polley , askew , and taye diggs don't help or hurt the roles . 
in fact , even bigger names like mohr , wolf , and katie holmes don't have enough time to make substantial success . 
although that's almost expected for lack of continuous screen time , the success in the picture should come from a thread that binds the stories . 
go doesn't have this , and it suffers because of it . 
as far as teen movies are concerned , go represents the absolute bottom , for its constant stream of indecipherable light and sound mean nothing without some sort of common theme . 
 ( the following do not count as common themes : drug deals , people attempting to have romantic interludes with drug dealers , people resorting to drug deals for alterior motives , or people not involved in drug deals stumbling into them . ) 
at times , the humor in go is sickly funny , and on a low night , almost watchable ; but for the majority of its running time and for most viewers , this movie will best be left to teens at blockbuster on a saturday night . 
i feel sorry for the financial backers of " waterworld , " which is supposedly the most expensive film ever made ( at $172 million ! ) , and is also one of the stupidest - boy did they get ripped off ! 
in fact , this film is not really a movie , but more of an amusement park ride with a plot . 
it's not even just another case of cliches strung together ( well , it is that too ) , it's something that's painful to watch because it relishes in its flaws . 
kevin costner stars as a man who is some kind of mutant half man/half fish . 
he is an explorer/mariner on an alternate earth that is completely covered by water because the polar ice caps melted . 
he's referred to as the mariner , but they " the meaner " would have been a more appropriate title because he's cold , rigid , and strict - and he's supposed the be the good guy ! 
he docks at a small floating village of sorts . 
he trades dirt for money and this introduces us to the other important characters . 
first we meet one of the villains , then the soon-to-be heroine , a child prodigy , a wacky inventor , and a group of primitive people that somehow have some of the technology we have today , but also some of the low-tech tools used by pirates and vikings . 
immediately the film's biggest flaw is apparent : are these people primitive or highly advanced ? 
it doesn't seem like anyone can read yet they have ski-doos and airplanes ! 
how are these things powered ? 
and if they have airplanes , couldn't they just keep flying until they reached dry land ? 
also , if the planet is completely covered in water where did they get the materials to make these things ? 
i'm sorry , i'm all for checking your brain at the door when going to the movies , but elements like these cannot go unnoticed because they draw our attention away from the story and confuse us . 
there was potential here for a good pirate story set in medieval times before modern technology , so why mix the two together ? 
it doesn't make any sense . 
there really isn't much of a plot here because the story moves so quickly it never takes time to explain anything . 
the only thing we learn is that the prodigy child , enola ( mojorino ) , has a tattoo on her back that is supposedly a map to " dryland . " 
who put the tattoo there and how come it has taken them this long to figure this out ? 
we never get an answer , just a stupid action movie about whoever can get the girl will be the victor of sorts if they reach dryland . 
to make a long , boring , stupid , and just plain bad story short ; the mariner escapes with a woman named helen ( tripplehorn ) and enola . 
they sail for a long time , encountering some strange people in the process and fight off " the smokers " as lead by the idiot villain deacon ( hopper ) , who kidnaps enola . 
the story becomes a overly grand adventure with the mariner taking on an army of goons , rescuing enola , and bringing them all to salvation ( how original ) . 
even with all its special effects , action , and adventure this film is boring . 
not a single character is likable , therefore neither is the plot . 
dennis hopper completely rips off jack nicholson's joker , while costner just plain rips . 
still , " waterworld " is professionally made with a good production design and an original idea but no substance to it . 
i just hope they don't make a sequel ! 
to watch `battlefield earth' is to wallow in misery . 
it is one of the most ludicrously conceived efforts in recent history . 
it has a clumsily told story , insipid dialogue , shallow characterizations , ugly scene transitions , no evidence of dramatic arc , headache-inducing sound effects , and a resolution that is completely implausible . 
worse , there's the promise of a sequel . 
why ? ! 
save your money . 
some films go quickly to video . 
this one , however , should go straight to the sci-fi channel's `mystery science theatre . ' 
in the year 3000 , man has become an endangered species . 
most of humanity ( called ? man-animals' ) was destroyed generations ago in a battle against a race of plundering aliens ( called psychlos ) . 
survivors have either taken up shelter in caves or were enslaved to mine earth's resources for the rest of their lives . 
the aliens are a menacing looking humanoid species that stand nine-feet tall , who resemble inbred klingons . 
dimwitted as they are tall , their culture is predicated on power , extortion , and getting ? leverage . ' 
travolta , the leverage-using star , plays terl , the conniving security chief that oversees the mining facility on earth . 
much of the movie is spent showing us examples of terl's petty machinations . 
he routinely employs deception and then punctuates his statements with maniacal laughter . 
but one thing is certain ; he hates being stationed on earth . 
when the home planet informs him that he will be spending the rest of his life on this planet , he begins to devise his latest plan . 
he will select a group of slaves to secretly mine out a gold ore site . 
it's not clear how this benefits terl , except that it makes him richer in a place where he has no use for it . 
the scrappy jonnie goodboy tyler ( barry peppers ) is selected as the slave group's leader . 
a psychlo knowledge machine gives him the mining know-how . 
but the machine also teaches him other things such as the psychlo language , the principles of our founding fathers , euclidean geometry , and the location of fort knox . 
this enlightenment just doesn't prepare him for the mining assignment . 
it also prepares him to organize and stage a massive revolt against their captors . 
`we're going to blow up their home world , ' he says . 
`but first , we need a few more supplies . ' 
in days , he and his comrades evolve from cave dwelling , loincloth wearing , rat eating slaves to fighter pilots and nuclear weapons experts . 
by now , the audience is laughing as maniacally as terl . 
the media have been working overtime to let the public know that john travolta's labor of love is a piece of sci-fi drivel . 
numerous journals have called it an ill-conceived idea stemming from blind hubris , arrogance , and poor planning . 
and after watching this movie , you'll wholeheartedly agree . 
this is a terrible film that is illogically constructed , tediously acted , and frequently begs the question : why was this ever made ? 
at a price tag of $90 million , this film will be remembered as a gigantic folly , assuredly becoming `the avengers' of this summer . 
both films were unforgivable and this promises to suffer the same speedy fate and subsequent indignity . 
in addition to the universally pejorative reviews , there's another bizarre element to the `battlefield' saga . 
this film would never have been made if not for the star power of travolta , who for over a decade , had been trying to persuade studios to bring the story to the big screen . 
the controversy is that travolta is a scientologist , and `battlefield' is based on a 1982 novel by l . ron hubbard , the religion's late founder . 
this led some to believe that `battlefield earth' would amount to scientologist dogma , laden with subliminal messages . 
but the story is so poorly told that any message , subliminal or otherwise , is totally undetectable . 
if the audience got anything out of this film , it was this : we are not too unlike the psychlo leader . 
like terl , the audience felt imprisoned , dreaded their situation , and looked for any opportunity to leave . 
could that be the scientology message ? 
 " you can't have any of this . 
it's all mine ! " 
--- a twisted priest ( charles huevelman ) hordes his tasty fried chicken while dana ( angela zimmerly ) looks on uninterested . 
an evil presence , appropriately named the presence ( dj vivona ) , rules over an alternate dimension where neither angels nor demons can touch him . 
for kicks , the presence likes to trick a human into rounding up five of his or her friends so they can all be sent to his dimension and be systematically slaughtered . 
when something goes wrong and one of the presence's recent victims escapes , the angels and demons are alerted to his existence and feel he is a threat that needs to be stopped . 
they enlist the help of alison ( ramona midgett ) , a recent suicide victim , to return to the flesh and follow the six new enlistees through the ice wall that surrounds the the nether-realm . 
her mission is to melt away the ice barrier and allow the angels and demons access by reminding the presence of who he once was , an ancient court jester named abraham who lost his job when his king and queen were killed . 
the king's sorcerer , amblyn ( who also lost his job ) , decided to take abraham under his wing as an apprentice . 
during the downtime in his unemployment , amblyn decided to create a new dimension where sorcery , evil , and torture ruled . 
abraham wished to follow his master into this new realm , so he was asked to show his devotion to the evil wizard by murdering his one true love . 
in this new realm , amblyn would allow abraham to pursue the sport of hunting and destroying the humans that would be brought to this realm . 
after each murder , abraham would become stronger , until his power surpassed that of amblyn's . 
because of the screw-up that allowed the recent escape , abraham was able to destroy his master and take control of the realm himself . 
as alison quests to find abraham and show him the errors of his ways , the six new hapless humans are allowed to live out their worst nightmares and then be brutally murdered . 
if there's one thing i can't stand when i see a film , it's when the film is pretentious and arty just for the sake of being pretentious and arty . 
films like eraserhead and begotten are two of the worst examples of this , and now ice from the sun can be added to this list . 
this film is essentially an 80 minute stalk-and-slash film ( following the dante's inferno idea that your hell corresponds to how you lived your life or any one of the plots to nightmare on elm street 3 through 6 ) intercut with almost 40 minutes of strange and ( supposedly ) haunting images , many of which serve more to confuse than to further the plot . 
if there aren't bizarre images floating past the screen , then we get pointless shots of a suicidal alison staring at her breakfast for minutes at a time or contemplating whether or not she should answer her phone . 
compelling , but ultimately not . 
the opening credits sequence is designed like a music video for some unknown industrial band featuring various random images from the film interspersed with other random images . 
the credits run the entire length of the song which is almost five minutes and the actual cast listing and other credit information doesn't pop up until near the end of the sequence . 
when the opening credits began i thought my vcr had accidentally cut off and a interstitial from mtv2 had found its way to my tv . 
at least the music in the film is pretty decent , made up of mostly industrial and hard rock music and even features a song by ramona midgett . 
at the beginning of the film it is established that the presence possesses supernatural powers like shooting bullets out of the palms of his hands and decapitating people by waving his hand in front of them ( and he talks like a darth vader clone without the heavy breathing ) . 
for some reason though , he delegates all of his main stalkings to what seems like the supporting cast of deliverance . 
one over-alled cretin handles the presence's gravedigging and likes to chop peoples heads off with his shovel , then there's an inbred father ( dwight spurgin ) and his two inbred children ( mark kettler and jennifer poirrier-wallace ) that take care of a young woman who has been transformed into a half dog-half human mix with a shotgun , and of course a big truck driving guy that likes to tie people up naked to the back of his vehicle and drag them across stone roads before pouring salt all over their wounds . 
why would you want to give responsibilities to a bunch of " rednecks " when you yourself had all of these cool powers ? 
and how is it that the fellow that screws over all of his buddies is able to round up exactly five friends to complete the number of people required to enter the realm at exactly the same time ? 
i can barely get more than two together all at once at any given moment . 
the most ridiculous segment though comes right before the aforementioned dragging/salting sequence . 
the character in question , dana ( angela zimmely ) , has her turn up to be killed and is standing at the front of a movie theater in which the presence is seated . 
a priest holding two naked dirty humans on leashes walks in and sits down next to a large platter of fried chicken . 
he picks up the entire platter and starts to enjoy the chicken , taunting dana as she looks on with no interest whatsoever . 
when she starts to leave , the priest chides her for going before the performance starts and then something that looks like a either a creature from a gwar show or a terry gilliam animation from monty python come to life , walks out , and makes like it wants to be crucified by her . 
the presence starts to clap annoyingly ( which continues for the rest of the sequence ) until dana takes off with the strange creature following her . 
when it finally catches up to her , she stabs it in its giant eyeball and is covered in slimy glop that spurts from the ruptured organ . 
the box for the film claims " because of the horrifying nature of the motion picture , parental discretion is advised for persons under the age of 18 . 
contains nudity and graphic violence " . 
while both is certainly true , there doesn't seem to be much of either in any large amounts . 
besides a loving close up of a spurting neck stump , a semi-graphic self-surgery scene , and two instances of head trauma ( one run over and one melting ) , most of the gore is just of the spraying blood or bloody wound covered body variety . 
as for nudity , it is very sparse , but at least we get to see angela zimmerly ( far and away the most attractive cast member ) before her body is bruised , torn , and bloodied by the dragging incident . 
ice from the sun has been released on vhs by www . b-movie . com . 
it has been presented in in full-frame only and the transfer ( for a film shot a good deal in 8mm ) is pretty decent . 
besides the decent soundtrack ( which is also available from www . b-movie . com ) , a making-of video is also available called on thin ice . 
i haven't had the opportunity to see the documentary , but i actually would have been interested to see what the set was like while all of the shots were being filmed , if only to see how director eric stanze ( director of a similar cult film called savage harvest ) , conducted the atmosphere on set . 
an 80-year old woman jumps enthusiastically on her couch , wearing tight-fitting leather , as she cheers on her favorite tv wrestler by calling his opponent a `pump-bitch' . 
two men messily eat fast food as their septic truck leaks raw sewage directly behind them . 
and roughly 17 people are booted in the crotch . 
welcome to `ready to rumble' . 
judging from the fact that potty-mouth adam sandler is the reigning box-office comedy champion , you realize -- albeit while shaking your head -- that yes , there is an audience for this sort of thing . 
ladies and gentlemen , i weep for society . 
mind you , when executed with style and comic ingenuity , jokes like an alarming bodily fluid mistaken for hair gel ( `there's something about mary' ) and a laxative-induced attack of explosive diarrhea ( `dumb and dumber' ) can be extremely funny . 
unfortunately , `ready to rumble' is not being helmed by the farrelly brothers , nor is it bolstered by a script that accommodates the viewer with anything even remotely clever or inspired . 
`ready to rumble' is built around the dedicated fan-base of professional wrestling . . . . 
which , in fact , sounded like a fine concept for a goofball comedy . 
but director brian robbins and screenwriter steven brill handcuff themselves , and limited to a stampede of asinine , humdrum bathroom humor , basically the only thing they manage is to evoke memories of pauly shore and `bio dome' . 
gordie boggs ( david arquette ) and sean dawkins ( scott caan ) take pride in being hardcore wcw wrestling fanatics . 
by day , they transport raw sewage . 
by night ( particularly on ? nitro' monday ) , they pay homage to their personal hero and savior - jimmy king ( oliver platt ) , the undisputed leader of the professional wrestling community . 
with two tickets to an upcoming nitro performance , gordie and sean are psyched about witnessing the king defend his title first-hand . 
but unscrupulous boxing kingpin titus sinclair ( joe pantoliano , sporting long hair and cowboy boots ) has other plans . 
sinclair is plotting to have diamond dallas page ( playing himself ) pummel the king into the tarp , thereby dethroning the dignified wrestler and embarrassing him in front of a bewildered auditorium full of fans . 
gordie and sean are shocked , rioting madly while arguing `this isn't even a pay-per view event ! ! ' 
they take it upon themselves to track the king down and supply the encouragement essential for their fallen idol to make a come-back attempt . 
along the way , you can expect a lot of sh-- jokes as well . 
you may find something to like in `ready to rumble' if a ) you are a rasslin' aficionado yourself , or b ) you are a dedicated fan of the lowest of low-brow comedies . 
i welcome low-brow humor with open arms - that is , if its fresh and resourceful . 
`rumble' is nothing but a sloppy , frightfully unfunny swamp land of misbegotten retardation . 
the first half-hour is the ultimate test of patience . 
luckily , the simple-minded events pick up steam , particularly with the well-choreographed wrestling action . 
director robbins showed a knack for capturing the brutality and excitement of football in `varsity blues' , and when in the ring , he does professional work . 
but the violence is too excessive . 
having the fake soap opera of wcw wrestling turn into a bloody skirmish brings back unfortunate memories of owen hart's tragic accident just last year , especially with one character's dive during a cage match . 
this is not something you want a comedy to be reminiscent of . 
outside the wrestling action , the lewd jokes and puerile sight gags bring new meaning to the term ? scattershot' , while the dialogue fluctuates in on the vulgarity scale of 1 to 10 , with brill's extensive vocabulary ranging from `diddly' to `boob' and so on . 
the final tally : i chuckled a few times , groaned a lot , and indulged in one spirited belly laugh involving martin landau as a geriatric wrestling coach who fights pretty impressively for 105 . 
casting-wise , `ready to rumble' is an odd duck . 
oliver platt as a champion wrestling figure ? 
he's perhaps a bit chunky , but fellow wrestlers acknowledge this in the ring by calling him `fatty' , which dampens the blow i suppose . 
rose mcgowan is fully disposable as a sultry wcw cheerleader ( `the nirto-est of the nitro girls , ' proclaims gordie ) , but extra pep is added with appearances by wrestlers goldberg , `macho man' randy savage and sting ( among others ) . 
wcw fans are sure to appreciate these . 
others . . . 
well , won't . 
i found merit in david arquette's bountiful energy as gordie , which brings me to my finishing . . . . 
ahhh . . . . 
`praise' for the film : in `ready to rumble' , i have discovered something even more annoying than arquette's `at&t' television commercials . 
now there's a low blow for you . 
it's a rare treat when a quality horror film is released in the theater . 
and unfortunately with man's best friend , we'll be waiting a while longer . 
the film stars ally sheedy and lance henrikson in a tale of bio-genetics gone wrong . 
sheedy plays a nosy reporter whose need for a " good " story provokes her to snoop inside of emax , a poorly guarded million dollar bio-lab that she finds herself effortlessly intruding . 
the result : she unleashes the experimental wonder dog named max , a german shepherd with genetic recombination allowing it to swallow like a snake , camouflage like a chameleon , climb trees like a leopard , and attack with the strength of tiger . 
max takes a liking to sheedy , and she finds herself protecting the animal from the cruel technological realm of emax , owned by henrikson . 
well , it doesn't take long before the hormonally unstable biohazard unleashes his jowls upon the unsuspecting suburban landscape which offers max juicy leg of mailman , etc . . . 
sheedy is a boring non-presence on the screen , tripping through the enormous plot chasms neglected by the writer/director ( i apologize for a lack of credits . 
i suppose i was eager to leave the theater , and in my rush , forgot to take note of the director , writer , producer , etc . . . ) . 
henrikson offered the only relief from the contrived narration of the script , giving his character as much development as he could considering the flat dialogue plaguing the film . 
the movie depends upon it's ability to impress the audience with animal special effects , but all it presents is a dog that can growl , open door handles with his paw , sit , roll over , play dead , and sick . 
the rest of the special effects were so poor , i found them offensive . 
the film attains sub-mediocrity , an unambitious film at best . 
horror fans might find that cujo offers a better bite . 
joe versus the volcano is really one of the worse movies made in very recent memory . 
the strangest thing is that you would think nothing would go wrong with it . 
it has a solid cast with tom hanks & meg ryan as the lead roles . 
but you can never judge a movie by its cast . . . 
if there is one good thing about joe vs the volcano , it is that the plot is original . 
unfortunately , it is also incredibly stupid . 
the movie begins with joe ( tom hanks ) going to work . 
this opening sequence is very boring and slow . 
it shows joe walking to his office . 
but on the way , he has to wait in a long line passing by strange and slightly depressing scenery with obnoxious lighting . 
a sequence like this should take 2 minutes . 
here , it takes over 5 . . . 
it is obvious that joe hates his job . 
at his office , one of his co-workers is meg ryan . 
oddly enough , she plays 3 different roles in this movie ! ! 
joe leaves to go to a doctor's appointment . 
his doctor informs him that he has a " brain cloud . " 
this means that in a few months , he will die . 
so what does joe do ? 
quit his job , of course ! ! 
when he arrives home , joe meets an old man named graynamore ( lloyd bridges ) . 
graynamore tells joe that in order to get some important mineral for his company from an island , the natives need someone to sacrifice to their volcano to please their fire god . 
by a startling coincidence , the boat trip to the island takes a few months . 
by the time he reaches the island , he will almost be dead from the " brain cloud " anyway , so joe agrees . 
graynamore gives joe a credit card to buy everything he needs to go on this " great adventure " . 
joe goes on a date with meg ryan , his co-worker . 
the day before the boat trip , joe meets one of graynamore's daughters . 
she is also , surprise , meg ryan . 
except she looks more hippyish . 
they both have dinner and the next day , joe gets driven over to his boat . 
the lady that sails the boat is another one of graynamore's daughters . 
and , wonder of wonders , she is also played by meg ryan . 
as they sail to the island , meg ryan tells joe that the natives of the island have a craving for orange soda . 
after some stupid talking scenes , they also deduce that graynamore had his doctor be the one that joe went to . 
and that the " brain cloud " thing was made up ! ! 
they do plently of cheap special effects on the boat voyage . 
joe goes fishing and catches a hammerhead shark . 
this is a cheap gag that has been pulled off many times . 
but , to top it off , the shark is obviously rubber and fake ! ! 
one night there is a storm . 
a cheap-looking lightning bolt strikes the boat and everything is cast overboard . 
fortunately , joe and meg ryan manage to find some of the luggage that joe brought to sail . 
by pure luck , they get to the island . 
since the natives like orange soda , they wear soda cans as attire ! ! 
stupid or what ? 
 ; ) before joe leaps in the volcano , he gets fed . 
right before he jumps , meg ryan pleads him not to . 
when joe decides to , she goes in with him because " she loves him " . 
now this is where the movie should end . 
but , unfortunately , the " cheesy ending " bug comes in . 
the volcano blows the couple out and into the ocean where they land on joe's luggage . 
they float to another part of the island as they watch lava pouring out of the volcano towards the villagers . 
i give this movie a . 
see it only if you're a film buff that enjoys a bad movie every now and then or if you really like tom hanks or meg ryan . . . 
 " be gentle , " urges natasha henstridge to matthew perry in " the whole nine yards . " 
 " i haven't made love in five years . " 
 " neither have i , " rebuts perry . 
 " i'm married ! " 
if jonathan lynn's latest comedy relied simply on jokes of that caliber--and it certainly tries--then it'd be an innocuous if rather obvious little film . 
instead , its failings go much deeper . 
first off , who hasn't had enough of the tough wiseguy intimidates the timid wise guy genre ? 
if you want to make a pretty penny or two in hollywood nowadays simply write a " comedy " which pairs a robert de niro/james caan/bruce willis type with a billy crystal/hugh grant/matthew perry type and wait for the royalties to roll in . 
who's next ? 
jack nicholson and martin short ? 
it certainly doesn't have to be funny . 
 " the whole nine yards " is not a particularly funny film , but it is borderline offensive . 
offensive in the way it continues a trend of poking fun at career criminals who wouldn't think twice about pushing your mother-in-law off the brooklyn bridge with her feet encased in concrete . 
that might sound like a funny sight gag , but the problem is these films have long since lost sight of the fact that taking a human life isn't all that funny to begin with . 
when the corpse is placed in a car , doused with gasoline , set ablaze and referred to as " barbecue , " it makes you wonder when all this playing killing for laughs is going to end . 
 " the whole nine yards " is also offensive in so much as its three central female characters are portrayed as nothing more than sex objects . 
rosanna arquette plays a slutty , chain-smoking french canadian who's married to matthew perry's none-too-successful dentist . 
it's an unflattering role made all the more so by the unflattering outfits--and unflattering situations--into which arquette is thrust . 
then there's natasha henstridge ( " species " i and ii ) who plays the well-to-do wife of contract killer bruce willis . 
she gets involved with perry's character when he comes to chicago hoping to negotiate a finder's fee with mob boss yanni gogolack ( kevin pollack , transposing his vs with his ws ) after willis' jimmy the tulip tudeski moves in next door . 
henstridge and perry's characters hitting it off is about as likely as bruce and demi getting back together . 
perry might have the charm but he doesn't have the physical attributes of a traditional leading man , especially in close-up . 
most objectified of the bunch is amanda peet , who turns in a sexually-ripe performance as perry's dental assistant with , it transpires , questionable career goals . 
peet's gratuitous nude scene proves how low this movie will stoop to keep its audience from dropping off . 
when " my cousin vinny " is the highpoint of a directorial career including such forgettable films as " clue , " " greedy , " and " sgt . 
bilko , " you have to wonder if lynn chose the wrong career path . 
perry's pratfalling goofiness coupled with willis' likable hardness could have had some potential but with no script to work with , and a director who seems to be watching from the wings , their characters run out of gas quickly . 
 " flubber " is the second best example of how to take all the life out of a film remake an adaptation , and hysterically enough both were distributed by disney . 
it's the kind of film that may be slightly entertaining to tiny kids , but anyone else will feel left out as it's boring , slow , and incredibly lifeless . 
what could be a film with cinematic magic is instead dead in the water , and it's a shame because it could have been a great film . 
hypothetically , i mean . 
 " flubber , " as you probably know , is a remake of the disney classic i never saw , " the absent minded professor , " where a , well , absent minded professor played by fred mcmurray created an erratic substance known as " flubber , " you know , flying rubber ? 
the new one keeps the basic plot , but appears to have added a lot else , like more absent-mindedness on the part of the proffessor , some more villains , and several " show-stopping " moments , like a big rumba with the flubber , and some more elaborate setups , none which really make it any better , but instead make it worse . 
the basic plot revolves around a college professor , philip brainerd ( robin williams ) , who creates lots and lots of inventions , but is sadly absent minded . 
in fact , he's forgotten his wedding to the college's president , sara jean reynolds ( indie actress marcia gay harden ) , two times before he forgets it again at the beginning . 
doesn't this warrant some kind of mental treatment ? 
anyway , on his wedding day ( the third one ) , he invents the flubber , which not only bounces off of everything like a super ball on speed , but can also change shape like the aliens in water form in " the abyss . " 
philip believes that this invention , once fully realized , will save his college , which is in threat of being shut down by a millionaire tycoon/villain , chester hoenicker ( raymond j . barry ) , which is ironically enough the same college his brat son ( will wheaton - thought he was dead ) goes to . 
through a plot twist , hoenicker's goons , named smith and wesson ( ha ha - what a great sense of humor this film has ) who are played by clancy brown and ted levine ( both who needed the pay check ) , discover it the hard way , and try to steal for hoenicker , who wants it just 'cause he's evil enough . 
a sub-plot involves philip's attempts to win back sara , who's angry at him ( and with good reason ) , but who is being seduced by who is basically philip's belloq , wilson croft ( christopher mcdonald , playing the hysterically suave-yet-unsuave asswhole once again ) . 
and in another subplot , philip's day-timer robot , weebo ( voiced by the one-and-only jodi benson ) , falls in love with him . 
yuckity-yuck . 
what's most pathetic about this film is how dull it is . 
you don't need to be a cynical college student to be able to see right through this film , which is another in a long line of cheap attempts at making a quick buck by disney , who have essentially become the puff daddy of the film industry , half-assedly re-mixing classics ( or non-classics ) for distribution to the general public , who sadly eats it all up . 
earlier in '97 , they released " jungle 2 jungle , " an adaptation of a really awful french film , " un indien dans la ville , " which , yeah , improved over the original , but not by much . 
disney's in about as bad shape as warner brothers right now , only creatively . 
in the rush to ship out a film for distribution , disney has forgotten to give this film a little thing called " magic . " 
such scenes as dancing flubber , a flying car , a basketball team that pretty much sucks flying all around thanks to some carefully placed flubber , and an elaborate ending all fail to amaze , delight , or even cause people to laugh . 
i sat there the entire film stone faced , chuckling perhaps twice , and shaking my head at all the bad jokes . 
who could really laugh at a scene where philip enters the wrong classroom and starts teaching chemistry ? 
didn't think so . 
it doesn't help that our protagonist is essentially unfunny or even really respectable . 
philip is not a lovable absent minded professory , just a really dumb man being played by robin williams . 
williams is a brilliant comic actor . . . okay , a brilliant actor in general , but here he's given very little to do but occasionally get hyper over something , and other times act sad . 
those times , he's not bad . 
but what are we supposed to think of a man who's forgotten his wedding thrice ? 
maybe it was funny and/or respectable in the 60s . . . 
i like disney , and i usually enjoy their films , not only animated but live action , and their recent films ( save for " hercules , " which was good , but not great ) have been worse than lackluster , they've been pathetic . 
 " jungle 2 jungle " is probably the worst film i saw last year . 
 " flubber " 's probably second . 
what do they need to do ? 
perhaps create something new . 
get writers who can write something that's universally entertaining . 
films like " the parent trap " and " mary poppins " are films that are live action ( or in the latter case a mix of both ) , but even i can still watch them because they're not only written to be magical to children , but to be fun to adults . 
what's more torturous that taking a child to a film that insults you and annoys you at every turn ? 
and my god , couldn't they have done something else with edie mcclurg ? 
i'm going to start this review off with a hypothetical question . 
let's say you've just been in a car accident , and the driver of the other vehicle is unconscious . 
your friends have left to go get help , and you're waiting to see if the victim wakes up . 
a tow-truck comes along , and the driver hops out of the truck to see what's going on . 
he then proceeds to kill the unconscious victim by snapping his neck . 
do you : 
a ) run away screaming for your life , staying away from the main road , 
b ) run away ( but not too fast ) and stay on the main road even when the madman in the truck starts following you , * stop * to catch your breath , try to negotiate with the psycho , and when that fails , start running away again , all the while * staying on the main road * ? 
if you answered " a " , you are far more intelligent than the screenwriter of " texas chainsaw massacre : the next generation " and will likely hate this movie . 
however , if you answered " b " , prepare to enjoy a film made with idiots like you in mind ! 
 " texas chainsaw massacre : the next generation " is being called a sequel , but it's really more of a remake of the original . 
there's a few changes here and there , but it's essentially the same ( even the infamous " meathook " scene has been re-created . ) 
the story opens with four teenagers hitting the road on the night of their prom , and somehow ending up in the middle of nowhere . 
needless to say , they soon encounter leatherface and his nutty family . 
much carnage ensues . 
to call this movie inept would be putting it mildly . 
in addition to the laughably idiotic situation i mentioned in my hypothetical question , there is a moment towards the end of the film where one of the baddies is killed by an airplane that literally comes out of nowhere . 
it just swoops down and kills him with its wheel . 
no explantion is given as to who was flying it or why he/she is going around killing people with the planes wheel . 
the dialogue is even more atrocious . 
zellwegger , who is kidnapped by " the family " early on , keeps trying to have normal conversations with these people . 
when you're surrounded by maniacs wielding chainsaws and dead corpses , i would think that rationality would go out the window . 
speaking of going out the window , there is a scene in which zellwegger jumps out a window . 
apparently , the stunt double had a little trouble , because she visibly gets stuck in the window . 
the director quickly cuts to a wide shot where the stunt double * doesn't * get caught in the window . 
this was one of many glaring inconsistencies . 
there are so many , in fact , that if i were to name them all , this review would be several pages long . 
the only reason i am giving this movie one star instead of no stars is because of matthew mcconaughey . 
he plays a member of " the family " with a hydraulic leg ( home-made , i might add ) and is so completely over-the-top , you can't help but be amazed by his performance . 
he obviously had a lot of fun with this part , and it really shows . 
he makes jack nicholson's portrayal of the psychotic inn keeper in " the shining " look restrained in comparison . 
for a horror movie , " texas chainsaw massacre : the next generation " contains surprisingly little gore . 
in fact , in contains none . 
there's a little blood here and there , but that's as far as it goes . 
which leads me to believe that the budget must have been * astonishingly * low , and it shows . 
everything about the movie looks cheap , from the sets to the costumes . 
especially leatherface . 
once frightening and nightmare inducing , he's now as terrifying as dame edna . 
do yourself a favor and take a pass at this remake . 
check out the far superior original instead . 
susan granger's review of " session 9 " ( usa films ) 
sometimes you just get more than your bargained for . . . like when boston-based hazmat elimination , run by scottish actor peter mullan and his trusty assistant , david caruso , assures a town engineer ( paul guilifoyle ) that they can remove insidious asbestos fibers from a victorian hospital facility in a week . 
erected in 1871 , deserted and decomposing since 1985 , the danvers mental hospital , is one of the most malevolent " locations " ever chosen for a film . 
the structure is so massive - with its labyrinth of rubble-strewn corridors , collapsing floors , stagnant pools of water , isolation cells , and ominous surgical chambers where experimental pre-frontal lobotomies were performed - that their task seems impossible within that time frame . 
and each member of their inexperienced crew ( stephan gevedon , brandon sexton iii , and josh lucas ) is coping with his own personal demons as , one by one , their minds seem to be affected by the grim areas in which they're working . 
the film's title is derived from salvaged reel-to-reel audio-recorded sessions involving the demonic possession of a young woman who is suffering from multiple personalities . 
by the time session 9 occurs so do dreadful disasters . 
filmmaker brad anderson obviously envisioned this as a gruesome chainsaw-massacre-type ghost story but the script lacks structure and isn't particularly scary . 
the conclusion is more ludicrous than convincing . 
on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " session 9 " is a dark , gloomy 4 . silly me . . . at 
first , i thought that the original name of the danvers lunatic asylum bore some reference to mrs . danvers , the creepy housekeeper played by judith anderson in alfred hitchcock's truly terrifying " rebecca " that also involved a cavernous mansion called manderley . 
by the time dennis quaid , the ostensible star of switchback , makes his first appearance at about the 22-minute mark , you may find yourself wondering why he bothered . 
after all , writer/director jeb stuart has already set up a fairly promising pair of parallel story lines . 
the first finds amarillo , texas sheriff buck olmstead ( r . lee ermey ) facing a hotly-contested election battle just as a brutal double homicide is discovered at a motel in his jurisdiction . 
as olmstead begins his investigation , we also meet the two men who come to be our prime suspects . 
lane dixon ( jared leto ) is an enigmatic young hitchhiker ; bob goodall ( danny glover ) is the jovial motorist who offers lane a ride from texas to his utah destination . 
all the necessary conflicts seem to be in place -- the internal struggle of olmstead over the clash between good politics and good police work , and the external struggle as one of the two travelers eventually becomes villain to the other's protagonist . 
but then quaid shows up as grimly determined fbi agent frank lacrosse . 
lacrosse is certain that the amarillo murders are the work of a serial killer he has been tracking for nearly two years . 
he's not supposed to be tracking him any more -- according to the bureau , they've got their man -- but lacrosse has a very important reason for believing otherwise . 
two months earlier , lacrosse's own son was kidnapped by the killer , and the boy has yet to turn up anywhere . 
lacrosse knows his killer's work , and he knows that the man is still out there somewhere trying to continue their game . 
it wouldn't be fair to reduce everything that's wrong with switchback to quaid's presence , but it's a pretty good place to start . 
there's a reason lacrosse feels like an intruder in the narrative instead of its vital center : as a dramatic actor , dennis quaid possesses exactly one facial expression and one vocal intonation . 
we can tell lacrosse is determined because his face is a perpetual tight-jawed , sourpuss pucker ; we can tell he's grim because every word comes out in an eastwood-esque rasp . 
a more flexible performer might have given weight to the character , pulling the audience into his haunted intensity , making switchback _his_ film . 
quaid merely looks annoyed and slightly constipated . 
it's tough to become emotionally invested in a character's turmoil when it looks like all he really needs is a big bowl of bran flakes . 
even without quaid , it doesn't appear that switchback would have stayed on course . 
the early scenes between leto and glover have a lively energy , building our curiosity over which man -- the taciturn kid or his gregarious benefactor -- is the real threat . 
unfortunately , stuart tips his hand far too early in the game , both through the pitch of the individual performances and the facts he chooses to reveal . 
once the mystery of the killer's identity is dispatched , the interaction between leto and glover becomes stale and predictable . 
in fact , " stale and predictable " describes the direction that switchback takes in general , falling back on far-too-common hollywood devices like cats jumping out of nowhere , a climactic fistfight on board a freight train , and edgy law enforcement agents . 
it's too bad stuart wasn't willing to spend more time with sheriff olmstead , far and away the most interesting and appealing character in the film . 
played with atypical restraint by r . lee ermey , he's a wonderful , unconventional hero who seems genuinely comfortable accepting the consequences of acting on his convictions . 
a film focusing on the olmstead would have signaled a film-maker willing to take a few risks with his casting and story-telling . 
instead , stuart places his trust in a " name " star who can't carry the material . 
maybe next time he'll throw away that one crucial page in the script , the one where the grimly determined fbi agent wanders onto the scene to muck up a perfectly good story . 
gregg araki's the doom generation was possibly the very worst film ever made . 
so why did i see his latest teen bisexual angst opus ? 
first of all , some of the reviews were fairly positive . 
also , the cast , consisting of cameos from dozens of washed up ex tv stars ( including christopher knight , eve plumb , shannen doherty , and david leisure ) was promising . 
last of all , i wanted to give arraki one more chance . 
i mean , the guy can't be that untalented , can he ? 
the answer to that question is three letters long . 
nowhere follows the character dark on his wild and odd journey through los angeles . 
since arraki doesn't know how to make anything coherent , it's hard to describe the plot . 
let's just say that dark spends the bulk of the movie whining that his girlfriend won't make a commitment to him and jealous because she sleeps around with other guys and girls . 
the only remotely compelling storyline involves sarah lassez as a teen who has a chance encounter with a famous tv star . 
he turns out to be a nice guy who doesn't care for fame and wishes he could walk down the street without being mobbed by fans . 
this story has a shocking twist and a tragic end that i did not see coming . 
it is the first time i ever felt any compassion for a character created by arraki , and this can be attributed to the appealing performance of lassez . 
i thought maybe arraki was improving in his craft . 
he works better with the camera this time around , especially in the early scenes . 
halfway through the film , i didn't necessarily find myself enjoying the film , but it seemed like a considerable improvement on the doom generation . 
then as the movie went on , arraki loses all sensibility and introduces us to exploding heads , twisted sex games , and alien abductions . 
it's sad , because he almost actually had some decent material here , but he ruined it with his usual in your face " i'm such a renegade maverick filmmaker , look what i can do " attitude . 
the performances are generally better than in the doom generation , which isn't saying much . 
at least we don't have to suffer jonathan " i am the most hideous man in america " schaech . 
we are , however treated to another round of james " i'm more wooden than keanu " duval . 
sarah lassez gives the best performance in the film , and kathleen robertson ( formerly of 90210 and now arraki's wife ) and rachel true are talented actresses caught up in this mess . 
of the tv star cameos , john ritter is the most interesting as a deranged right wing tv evangelist . 
if i prefer nowhere to the doom generation , it is only in the way that i would prefer being assassinated than receive constant physical torture . 
maybe greg arraki doesn't want you to like his characters . 
maybe he wants to laugh and make fun of those of us who try to care about them . 
maybe he just wanted to piss me off . 
if so , he was successful . 
sometimes , when i decide to write a short story or a poem , i think of a title first , and then think of a subject to go with it . 
it seems that the makers of disturbing behavior had a similar train of thought when it came to the title sequence . 
i wouldn't be surprised if a couple of guys got together and created the opening credits , and then someone saw it and made up a story to go along with it . 
the title sequence is so good , so ominous and original , that it had me engrossed before the picture even began . 
of course , my attention dwindled shortly into the film . 
disturbing behavior , like so many thrillers , starts off interesting and ends up laughably ridiculous . 
it's a teen horror film with no interesting violence or sex . 
it's a suspense film with no suspense . 
it's an evil small town story with no story to speak of . 
it's a disaster , a listless and uninspired disaster , that just barely misses one-stardom because of a few good sequences , a mercifully short running time , and one terrific set of opening credits . 
our main man is a fellow named steve clark , blandly played by jimmy marsden . 
he moves to a small town with his family after , tragically , his brother shoots himself . 
steve is very upset about the untimely death of his brother ; we learn this through strange home-video like nightmares that he has occasionally . 
the big trial for steve is , of course , to fit in at school and make new friends . 
marsden looks like your stereotypical jock down to the last detail , so he seems a poor casting choice for a social reject . 
as a social reject , he falls in with some pretentious dope-smoking philosophers , gavin ( nick stahl ) and rachel ( katie holmes ) . 
gavin informs steve that the local group of jocks , known as the blue ribboners , are actually a bunch of zombies , assimilating new members into their group , while sporadically killing innocent people . 
so , it's up to our group of mismatched protagonists to 1 ) solve the mystery , and 2 ) do something about it . 
by the end of it all , something has happened and things have been explained , but the film still doesn't make any sense . 
disturbing behavior was written by scott rosenberg . 
i've seen his name around recently ( he was one of the toucher-uppers on the armageddon script ) , and i imagine that , for the most part , he knows what he's doing when it comes to screenwriting . 
he did , however , have a complete lapse in judgement when he got the idea for this film , and then decided to actually take the time to write it out . 
evil small town films are pretty common ( the last one , phantoms , is also a dismal failure ) , but it takes a lot of skill to make the formula work . 
rosenberg's script is a complete mess , lacking in even the most basic attempts at characterization . 
and it makes no sense , nor is their any purpose when things are finally " explained . " 
there is supposed to be an element of surprise when we see what is happening to the jocks , but the film never explains exactly what * is * happening . 
they get strapped to chairs , a microchip is inserted into their eyes , and -- poof -- they become sex-crazed , superviolent , machine-like creatures . 
the doctor responsible for all this , dr . caldicott ( bruce greenwood ) , must be pretty nuts for thinking that this kind of behavior is a step up from the way high school jocks actually behave ( or , perhaps , this is the only realistic element in the film ) . 
much of the writing is simply bad , and rosenberg has no intuition when it comes to the way high school kids act . 
in one terrible scene , gavin explains to steve all of the high school cliques , while pointing them out in the cafeteria . 
up front , i should say that , in four years of high school , i did not eat in the cafeteria even once . 
that aside , the various social groups he points out are general , uninteresting , and poorly-shown . 
for instance , he points to the " nerds , " who are all wearing glasses and playing with their laptops . 
it's such an obvious cliche that i can't believe rosenberg even bothered . 
most of the dialogue is forced ( no one says , " bite me ! " 
anymore ) , and none of the scenes have any degree of wit . 
this picture is not inspired , and most scenes flop from one to the other , with no sense of momentum or energy . 
the blame for this can be placed on director david nutter , who apparently likes his films dry . 
horror films should at least exploit violence , but this one is shockingly timid . 
there are a few good scenes , though , such as an interesting trip through an insane asylum ( this is , however , the most forced scene in the film , for how our heroes get there or why they bother are things we never learn ) . 
i also liked the school janitor character , played by william sadler . 
he has a few lines that are surprisingly thought-provoking . 
the acting is largely a waste of talent . 
marsden is , as i said , bland ( thought not particularly bad ) . 
bruce greenwood is shamelessly wasted . 
stahl and holmes both show they have talent , but the direction isn't good enough to hone in on their skills ( stahl's performance seems more like a parody of high school potheads ) . 
none of these characters expand beyond their one dimension , and , frankly , watching cardboard cut-outs of human beings run down hallways while screaming just isn't all that cool . 
disturbing behavior is a wreck of a film , and it started out a wreck before shooting even began . 
i'm surprised there were producers who read this script and thought that it would make a good film , or that it would make a lot of money at the box office . 
it's not boring , or even blatantly awful , but it's an uninspired lump of a film . 
it sure starts off nicely , but the regression into total absurdity is so consistent that the very last scene is outright laughable . 
so , if you go to see this film , take my advice : appreciate the credit sequence , and pray it never ends . 
written by david j . schow and john shirley , based on the comic book series and comic book strip by james o'barr . 
cast brandon lee , ernie hudson , michael wincott , david patrick kelly , rochelle davis , and jon polito . 
mpaa rating " r " ( presumably for rape , language , and violence ) 
running time 100 minutes 
 " looks like he zigged when he should've zagged . " 
- ernie hudson , as a police officer commenting on a suspicious death . 
comic book translations are notorious tricky-- anyone up for a double-bill of the punisher and captain america ? -- and the crow proves no exception . 
despite a gross of good intentions , brandon lee's final film doesn't fly very high . 
the story opens on halloween eve , better known as devil's night . 
wilmington-as-detroit is in flames and the police are tending to at least * one * murder : young rock-musician-turned-pavement-artist eric draven ( lee ) , found on a sidewalk six-stories below the apartment he was thrown from . 
the cops are also upstairs , administering aid to his fiance who was assaulted and raped and not necessarily in that order . 
she dies , the perps . 
escape , and , exactly one year later , draven rises from the grave to wreak revenge . 
sound familiar ? 
unlike charles bronson , whose only known superpower involves an inability to refrain from filming death wish sequels , lee's character has supernatural strength and amazing agility and can even reheal from gunshot wounds faster than robert patrick in terminator 2 . by his side is his crow , the presumable source of his powers as related in the narration . 
wearing what appears to be alice cooper's leftover make-up , lee is plopped into an underlit urban landscape that was obviously modeled after batman and blade runner . 
but no number of red-lit , rain-soaked streets can compensate for cheap fx that make the crow seem closer to darkman than batman . 
 ( the glaring miniatures should show better on video , though . 
 : ) 
a nod to darkman is an insult to sam raimi , though , because alex proyas can't film a decent action scene to save his life . 
his two " best " set-pieces-- some banzai board-room butchery and a cool church- roof sword fight-- are also undercut by the awful editing of dov hoenig and scott smith . 
blame said editors for the film's frightful flashbacks , as well . 
but the pace is quick , thank god , and every good-idea-turned-bad is over before it begins . 
the cast is better than it should be . 
ernie hudson is a good choice as a friendly policeman and he gets off most of the film's funnier lines . 
newcomer rochelle davis does well as both the narrator and draven's scrappy ward . 
jon polito has a small , succulent role as pungent pawnbroker . 
and michael wincott makes a distinct impression as a long-haired mr . big whose collection of ancient-swords makes him seem like he walked into the film from the trailer to highlander iii . 
there can be only one . 
finally , there's brandon lee , son of bruce lee , and a 28-year-old rising-star who was fatally shot during shooting . 
lee had four films to his name-- kung fu : the movie , laser mission , showdown in little toyko , and rapid fire-- and the crow would've been a nice feather in his belt and that's about it . 
there's nothing great from him here-- just a good performance that owes as much to presence as ability . 
when the echo of that gunshot finally fades , watching the crow should prove an even * less * remarkable experience . 
despite a healthy dose of humor and some surprising sincerity , the crow is still just a couple notches above its straight-to-video brethren . 
for now , maybe it's an appropriate eulogy to an actor who could only get better . 
synopsis : sullen julie james , still haunted by nightmares of the killer ben willis from i know what you did last summer , perks up when her new best friend karla wilson wins a trip for four to the bahamas . 
arriving at the start of the hurricane season , julie and karla run around in very tight clothing and realize they've walked into a trap set by the rainslickered slasher with a huge hook for a hand . 
comments : i may be showing some pop culture illiteracy here , but i have never seen an episode of the fox tv series " party of five . " 
i am only vaguely aware of the show's premise , and my knowledge of it comes from brief commercials i half-paid attention to while watching the tube . 
 " party of five , " i do know however , seems to be the starting ground for actresses in the teen horror genre . 
neve campbell , scream queen of the 90s and star of scream , scream 2 , and the craft , is a regular of the show . 
so too is jennifer love hewitt . 
lo and behold , following in the footsteps of campbell , hewitt now has a horror franchise of her own : the i know what you did last summer line . 
though the original film , released last year , was watchable enough , this insipid sequel had me looking at the theater's glowing red exit sign longingly throughout . 
jennifer love hewitt is a very good-looking young leading lady ; however , unlike neve campbell , hewitt struggles with acting . 
she just isn't convincing in this film ( and she wasn't in the original either ) . 
this puts many young males , including myself , in a paradoxical quandary : she's very attractive , but the annoying , spoiled , valley girl-type character she tries to play here is annoying to the extreme and ruins many of the scenes which emphasize , exploitatively , her figure . 
add to the mix the equally pleasant yet irritating brandy , another rising teen tv star , and you get one frustrated male audience . 
i've spent so much time on hewitt and brandy for a reason . 
i still know what you did last summer , though cashing in on the success of the original , ultimately serves as a vehicle for these two young actresses . 
nothing else here is original or interesting . 
this movie , in fact , makes other recent so-so horror films like urban legend and john carpenter's vampires seem like stunning works of high art . 
i still know relies heavily on tired slasher film cliches : an isolated location , a storm , parentless teenagers , false alarm nightmares , lots of blue-lighted darkness scenes , a garbed slasher who walks around in the background without the characters seeing him , knives and other sharp instruments lying around everywhere , etc . you get the picture . 
the entire audience knows all the secondary characters introduced in the film are going to receive the business end of the killer's hook . 
they may as well have huge targets painted on them . 
like scream and its numerous knockoffs , these secondary characters are supposed to serve as comic relief . 
unfortunately , i still know's characters aren't all that funny . 
in particular , one character , a chain-weed-smoking guy , is obnoxiously annoying and certainly doesn't die soon enough . 
the death scenes , by the way , are relatively violent for a theatrically released horror film . 
several of them are uncomfortable to watch , and they reminded me of the sickening gore scenes in hellraiser : bloodline , a truly sadistic movie . 
this , too , did not help the supposed humor i still know was shooting for . 
and what is the deal with the slasher himself ? 
i know that the slasher film is not a particularly intelligent genre , but ben willis has got to go down as one of the most silly slashers in mainstream horror . 
come on , the guy looks like the gorton's fisherman , and his gruff voice makes him sound like a disney pirate . 
though his lightning-lit appearances ellicited much-needed laughter in the theater , his appearance borders on the absurd in the horror film , and that's * really * saying something . 
so , all that's left to talk about here is jennifer love hewitt and brandy . 
both prance about in tightfitting , revealing outfits or in various states of undress , yet neither of them ever actually do a nude scene . 
hewitt , however , does do a post-shower scene in which her thin bathrobe is quite . 
 . 
 . titillating . 
this scene alone made this one-star turkey earn two stars under my rating system . 
otherwise , hewitt and brandy both grate on the nerves . 
early in the film , for instance , brandy wins the trip to the bahamas . 
she and hewitt jump around and scream and screech for what seems like forever . 
i needed extra-strength tylenol after that part . 
oh , and the film's conclusion , talk about repetitive ! 
people who saw i know what you did last summer will predict i still know's ending at least 5 minutes before it happens . 
boring ! 
i saw this movie with my brother at the local downtown movie theater . 
admission is only one dollar on wednesdays , and we often go see bad movies on these days just to ridicule them . 
it's usually a fun thing to do along with the rest of the audience , who don't seem to mind participating in a mass " mystery science theater 3000 " -type viewing . 
i still know what you did last summer , however , produced several lengthy uncomfortable silences from the audience , underscoring how bad it * really * is . 
if it weren't for the main actresses' revealing wardrobes , i'd have had a very , very hard time sitting through this lame sequel . 
i can't imagine trying to watch it on video ( horror films seem 10 times better in a theater because they rely heavily on audience participation ) and wouldn't recommend it to people , unless they're horror film fanatics or huge fans of hewitt and brandy . 
i read on a website somewhere that another sequel is already in the works . 
what a depressing thought . 
hewitt apparently needs to spend more time on tv figuring out how to act . 
rated r , this film contains lots of violence , several gory scenes , and a couple nubile , horny teenagers--though the sex act itself is always thwarted . 
i'd say this is unsuitable for kids , but teens wouldn't have a problem sitting through it , especially since they obviously compose the film's target audience . 
note : some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers . 
be forewarned . 
to assess alex cox's film the winner as a loser would be so indolent . 
it would be derisive . 
it would be glib . 
it would be dismissive . 
it would be entirely accurate . 
rarely have i seen a film as excruciatingly annoying as the winner , a would-be comedy which quickly proves to be tedious , unfunny , and unengaging . 
the film attempts to be fresh and quirky , utilising a myriad of colourful characters to weave its absurd tale , but appears to overlook the fact that nobody in the film is remotely interesting and that all of the characters are essentially preposterous . 
the film is set in las vegas , and the focus in the winner is on philip ( vincent d'onofrio ) , an aloof , naive young man blessed with the odd gift of luck ; he virtually cannot lose at the tables . 
despite this prodigious talent , philip is perpetually mournful and quite indifferent about his gambling fortunes , neither taking joy in his winnings nor having the foresight to mask his abilities . 
consequently , he becomes an easy target for those who would ride upon his coattails and take advantage of his talent . 
louise ( rebecca demornay ) , a sultry lounge singer , insinuates herself into philip's life for the purpose of swindling him , while philip's estranged brother ( and , conveniently , louise's ex-beau ) johnny ( michael madsen ) arrives on the scene . 
 ( to add some colour , johnny also happens to be toting their father's corpse , sans one hand . ) 
meanwhile , philip is also befriended by a trio of low-rent , opportunists ( frank whaley , billy bob thornton , and richard edson ) , who have every intention of taking advantage of their new buddy's gift with the dice . 
serenely overlooking the chaos from behind the scenes is the casino owner ( delroy lindo ) ; it is probably not giving away much to reveal that his role in the winner is essentially that alluded to at the end of the flashy sequence in martin scorsese's casino which details the organization hierarchy of a casino's operations - he * is * the eye in the sky . 
it could be maddening to endure a film whose central protagonist is so oblivious of the ongoing blatant manipulation , but fortunately this is not the case in the winner , if only because our sadsack hero is such a sap ; not even remotely sympathetic or compelling , it becomes impossible to root for philip or even care about his fate , and the would-be swindlers of philip's fortunes are all drawn out as such ludicrous , transparent buffoons with entirely unimaginative and uninteresting schemes that one watches the winner with a complete sense of disinterest . 
it is a shame , as the winner features a talented cast - mr . d'onofrio is an underrated and gifted actor with a huge range ; mr . lindo has a remarkable screen presence which infiltrates every film in which he appears ; mr . madsen , ms . demornay , and mr . whaley have all done good work in the past . 
none of the actors in the winner are in top form here , and this film won't likely be a prized addition to their respective resumes . 
director alex cox does what he can with wendy riss' screenplay , and it is to his credit that this film at no point feels like an adaptation of a stage play ; i was startled to learn that the winner was in fact based upon one . 
while tedious , the film is well-paced and does not meander , but it would be near-impossible task for mr . cox ( or , for that matter , virtually any other director that comes to mind ) to overcome the film's widespread shortcomings in plot and characterization . 
to his credit , my understanding is that he has chosen to distance himself from the project in acknowledgement of its deficiencies . 
i caught the winner at its world premiere at the toronto international film festival in september 1996 , and in fairness it is entirely possible that the film has been extensively revamped since then due to the lacklustre audience reaction generated - there were more walkouts on this film than any of the others i screened . 
to be honest , though , i couldn't begin to isolate what could be done to this film to improve it - i assume that throwing the whole thing out and starting over is out of the question . 
the winner has apparently played on cable television in the united states and is beginning a limited theatrical release at the time of this writing . 
the film has a nice upbeat score by pray for rain , but i am honestly not being facetious when i state that the thing i treasured most about my screening of the winner was the bag of popcorn upon which i was munching . 
what's to like about the world of extremely violent trash pornography--ie . 
the garbage known as " snuff " films ? 
nothing , right ? 
what's to like about a film chronicling the world of violent trash pornography ? 
well . . . nothing . 
so , why make it , hollywood ? 
there's no reason why the average , sane movie-goer will be interested in such a topic . 
no one is going to enrich their life or have a good time by watching material such as this . 
the lack of quality filmmaking in " 8mm " ( from technical to acting ) stands out even more when you consider the star , writer , and supporting cast--all reputable . 
but joel schumacher and his brand of unlikable filmmaking strikes again ! 
like paul schrader , schumacher has his moments , but they're few and far ( far ! ) 
between . 
basically , this picture is crap and no one should pay to see it . 
why not walk out ? 
well , this wouldn't be a thorough review about a thoroughly bad movie . 
here's why you should spend your money on dog food or gum instead of " 8mm " . . . 
first thing--if you don't heed my advice , then understand what you're about to see before you even think about paying good money for this crud . 
it's not easy to watch . 
i didn't know the details of the story beforehand , but at least my ignorance can help others now . 
the ( ha ! ) plot revolves around tom welles ( nicolas cage ) as a surveillance expert and private investigator . 
a rich old woman discovers a " snuff " film in her late husband's safe . 
she calls welles and hires him to try and find out if the young girl ( it had to be a young girl , didn't it , schumacher ! ) who appears to be murdered in the film really is dead . 
she's horrified that her husband would have owned such a film ( in 8mm , of course ) and just wants welles to snoop around without police interference to see what he can find . 
family-man welles agrees against better judgement or any concrete leads even after cringing and grimacing at the sight of the grotesque " murder " . 
let me backtrack for a moment . 
see , " snuff " films are pornos with a violent twist--people are tortured in very sick ways and end up dead . 
however , the deaths are often staged and , in those cases , special effects and " good " acting make all the difference . 
very sick people enjoy and pay top dollar for these hard-to-find movies . 
the thought of this " industry " makes me want to throw my computer out the window and stop this review , but i'll swallow my bile and move on . 
welles follows clues to hollywood and the porn industry . 
you'd think he's sherlock holmes the way clues drop so easily for him ! 
he comes across smut clerk max ( joaquin phoenix ) who knows everyone and everything in the underground business of sleaze . 
after a lot of digging and bribing , welles finds the men who are responsible for making this , and other , " snuff " films . 
skip ahead , skip ahead , skip ahead . . . 
led by dino velvet ( peter stormare in an uncharacteristically terrible performance ) and star-torturer " machine " ( christopher bauer ) , they have a big showdown with welles where death and mayhem ensue . 
the movie doesn't end there , unfortunately , because welles has to do what all heroes in schumacher films do--become a vigilante . 
this film doesn't draw you in . 
it keeps you about 700 miles away from it and who in their right mind would want to get close ? 
it is possible to like a film that focuses on grime and sick behaviour ( ie . 
 " se7en " ) , but it takes a large measure of restraint ( schumacher has none ) and a larger amount of talent ( schumacher has little ) . 
by those jabs , i'm not only referring to his stylish destruction of the " batman " franchise , but " a time to kill " was an immensely overrated disappointment . 
for a guy who gets so much studio money , his track record of making rather bad movies is unparalleled . 
a good screenwriter and a good director can make you hypnotically watch even disgusting subject matter . 
writer andrew kevin walker didn't recapture the smarts of the fascinating script he authored for '95s twisted thriller , " se7en " . 
director schumacher doesn't have that innate ability to make you watch things you don't really want to see like better directors are capable of doing . 
he must not have believed hitchcock who espoused the theory that what we don't see is more frightening than what we do ( especially when it's a scene where young girl is supposed to be murdered ) . 
however , gratuitous is joel's middle name . 
he must think that not flaunting a hard-core act of violent sex is showing plenty of tactful restraint . 
no , he doesn't go that far , but we see enough unpleasantness . 
he doesn't leave much to the imagination . 
it's manipulating to hurt ( or kill ) young girls just to get the audience on the side of a murderous vigilante . 
the script and acting should be what gets us to believe in these characters , yet schumacher has no subtlety in his ( ha ha ! ) 
craft . 
case in point , a shot of a christian fellowship bus ( good , right ? ) 
drives away to reveal one of the villains ( bad , right ? ) . 
see . . . no 
subtlety . 
does joel think we're stupid or that we need to be held by the hand to comprehend the contrasting imagery ? 
who do we root for in this mess ? 
is there anybody out there ? 
it's not all the director's fault , though . 
why did the actors sign up for this ? 
nicolas cage is an oscar-winner , for cryin' out loud ! 
if he claims to do films to challenge himself and for the artistic merit rather than the money , what was he smoking when this script dropped on his veranda ? 
what is cage supposed to be in this movie--a whispering batman without the charisma and pointed ears ? 
villainous peter stormare is five steps past hammy . 
and what is james gandolfini doing in this trash ? 
he was so solid as a concerned father in " a civil action " . 
i guess ol' nic , pete , and jim were promised a mountain of money . . . or 
they're suckers . 
or they just don't care . 
there are moments ( albeit brief ones ) where this rises above the wasteland . 
catherine keener is good ( although too quick to threaten divorce ) as mrs . wells . 
baby cindy is obviously cute and wells' devout love of his daughter is sweet . 
the mother ( amy norton ) of the girl in the infamous 8mm film is not too bad as a woman dealing with the uncertain loss of her runaway daughter . 
this film has an appropriate blue-toned , washed-out look like " payback " ( which was a much better movie ) . 
the editing is okay in scenes of no dialogue , but at other times it's rough . 
during some conversations , close-ups and wide shots are not cut very well , making it look to be editted by someone whose instincts aren't good and whose timing was a half-second off . 
such a technical error indeed stands out . 
speaking of standing out , don't believe the misleading trailers . 
there's not much action here . 
occasionally , yes , but not as often as your tv will have you believe . 
after seeing " 8mm " , i may not be interested in ever watching any kind of porn again . 
is that a positive ? 
well , if making me almost ill at the thought of glimpsing a dirty movie again is their motive , they've done a swell job here . 
it'll be a long time before i give a schumacher film another chance--unless i lose my mind and become seriously depraved . 
but today i'm not depraved , so i ask , why does this film preach that this garbage is out there and that society should be worried about it ? 
i'm sure that somewhere right now there's some pretty sick crap going on , but that doesn't mean i need to know about it . 
yes , mr . walker , your script tells us that there are some screwed-up folks out there . 
yes , mr . walker , the proverbial monster doesn't look like we expect him to . 
you said all that in 1995 . 
move on . 
this film serves no purpose . 
it doesn't entertain , it doesn't teach us anything , it doesn't make a statement beyond the obvious " this stuff is bad " approach . 
only if this film awakens the authorities to find a way to abolish these types of horrors would it ever do someting truly worthwhile . 
that's not likely to happen , though , so " 8mm " is indeed a scummy waste of money . 
orson welles said years ago in a tribute to film , " to movies . . . to 
good movies " . 
if only joel schumacher and the producers had listened and told andrew kevin walker to bury this crud deep in a hole . 
like " snuff " films , " 8mm " should never have been made . 
now , excuse me while i go try to forget i ever saw it . 
useless trivia--joel schumacher loves the vigilante theme . 
he used it in " batman forever " , in " batman & robin " , in " a time to kill " , in " falling down " , and it's rumoured that joel himself will play the vigilante at his breakfast table tomorrow . . . 
in the james bond film " diamonds are forever , " tiffany case asks 007 whether he prefers brunettes to redheads . 
bond's response is that it doesn't really matter , as long as collars and cuffs match . 
well , collars and cuffs don't match in " the real blonde . " 
what might have sounded good on paper ends up as a largely unfunny , meandering comedy on screen . 
the film , supposedly a satire of the superficiality of soap operas and the modeling business , is wafer thin . 
it plays like an " ally mcbeal " episode dragged out to the nth degree , replete with a few unnecessary " fantasy " sequences . 
writer/director tom dicillo manages the material as if poking fun at daytime dramas is a fresh idea . 
it isn't . 
the only surprise here is that the talented dicillo could make familiar terrain so dreary . 
matthew modine plays joe , a struggling actor waiting tables in order to pay the rent . 
he's 35 with no agent and no credits since he's too proud to take on roles in commercials or soap operas . 
 " that's not really acting " he tells his girlfriend of six years , mary ( catherine keener ) , with whom he bickers constantly about sex . 
but they need the money , so joe finally agrees to take a part in a madonna video . 
but it's not really madonna starring in the video but a lookalike ( played by elizabeth berkley , still trying to jump-start her career after " showgirls " ) . 
this points out how artificial this whole business is , one supposes . 
dicillo has referred to " the real blonde " as " off-kilter , but an interesting combination of all sorts of stuff . . . " 
the film , which wanders all over the place without getting anywhere , is remarkably * on * -kilter and , with perhaps the single exception of the always-likable modine ( who's not afraid to stand around in a very unattractive bathing suit surrounded by hunks ) , the entire cast is vague and uninteresting . 
catherine keener , who's appeared in dicillo's previous three films ( including the brilliant " living in oblivion " ) , is at her most annoying in " the real blonde . " 
look at her closely ; she really can't act at all . 
her reactions are all wrong , almost always out of sync with her co-stars . 
she reacts too soon , or too late , to lines and situations . 
she moves her eyes , or her mouth , far too much . 
she frowns , she yells , she babbles--she blows chunks . 
maxwell caulfield plays joe's actor/waiter buddy bob , the one obsessed with dating a " natural " blonde . 
bob's personality ( not to mention caulfield's acting ability ) parallels that of the character he plays on the soap opera " passion crest " --stiff and uninteresting . 
maybe that's the point . 
daryl hannah is dim and uninteresting as the real blonde of the title , a soap dish who beds bob both on- and off-camera . 
hannah looks about fifty in this movie ( she's only 37 ) . 
why is that ? 
almost all the women in the film wear tops that show their nipples . 
why is that ! ? 
marlo thomas plays an uninteresting fashion photographer . 
kathleen turner plays an uninteresting talent agent . 
buck henry plays an uninteresting shrink . 
christopher lloyd plays an uninteresting caterer . 
and so on . 
the best parts of the " the real blonde " are the beginning and the end , brief scenes of an elderly woman losing and then finding her dog . 
there's more depth and sincerity in a single close-up of her expressive face than in the entire film . 
while this contrast is supposedly meant to highlight the shallowness of the other characters' lives , the only thing that makes shallow and superficial interesting is if it's funny . 
if i were to plot a graph of year against movie-plot-ridiculity for = hollywood movies , you'll probably see a line with constant gradient . 
= now , if i were to plot that same graph for the movies that the michael = bay/jerry bruckheimer has made over the last 4 years , that line would be = exponential in growth . 
the team started out with the will smith vehicle = bad boys which was no more than a 2hr long action-music-video , = nevertheless entertaining . 
then came the rock , where audiences flocked = to see nicholas cage team up with sean connery against some terrorizing = general fighting over some stupid cause . 
con-air was ridiculousy dumb in = its premise but it did have fun moments , and who can forget the nursery = rhyme sang by that psycho killer played by steve buscemi . 
while these = movies worked because there was something better to cover-up the dirt , = armageddon does not . 
very much like deep impact , a meteor is heading towards earth and they = didn't realize it until 18 days from impact . 
deep impact settled with = the modest meteor size as large as the city of new york but armageddon = just had to be bigger . . . . well 
about the size of texas ( that kinda meteor = whould probably knock earth out of its orbit ! ) . 
the panic of this = sighting spurs the idea of landing people on the meteor , drill it then = nuke it ( sounds familiar ) and who better to do such a job than harry = stamper ( bruce willis ) , your very own oil-driller extraordinaire and = his team of macho-misfits , nursing the tagline `there ain't nothin' on = this planet that harry can't drill ! ' . 
in that 18 days , harry's group was = split into 2 teams , trained for deep-space flight and finally blasted = into space in with special drilling vehicles on 2 new space shuttles . 
the main relationship drama of armageddon is formed within the = relationship of harry , a . j . 
and grace . 
to give you an idea , a . j . 
works = for harry , and loves grace , harry's daughter . 
the problem is , harry = hates to see his daughter hanging around some scruffy grunt like himself = for the rest of her life . 
so while a . j . 
and harry struts it out , grace = is place in a position where she is unable to take sides , so she remains = seated in the nasa control tower , crying over both of them in about 80% = of the movie . 
the human elements this movie tries to inject proves to be nothing more = than just an excuse for more slow-mo's and gold-tinted photography . 
the = anguish of the world is potrayed with scenes of people praying , running = for their lives or just sitting still staring at the sky , sounds fine = right ? 
i know , but it looks too out of place on screen , too staged . 
if = you were to ask yourself , `what's the difference between armageddon and = a r&b music video ? " 
you'd probably just said `the music . " . 
not = surprising since michael bay is a child of that industry and has = actually managed to transpose his mtv skills to screen successfully . 
his = foray into armageddon just proves that he doesn't when to stop . 
well there's really nothing much to sum up here . 
the = stock-aitken-waterman of hollywood movies have projected their art-form = into ridiculity , beyond the plane believability , where people still = accept even if they didn't believe . 
deep impact was ridiculous in most = aspects and i believe the makers know this . 
the thing is , they decided = to shroud myth and fantasy with a purely believable human tale of = suffering and coming in terms with ones problems , which ultimately = brought it above the ashes which it had initially put itself in . 
= armageddon , is an overcrowded , loud , messy , preposterously manipulative = waste of money and deserves to remain in that same pile of ash . . =20 
if you have planned to watched this over deep impact because of liv = tyler , bruce willis or the tagline " from the makers of `the rock' ! ! " . 
= please catch deep impact before it finishes its run , it may be the only = meteor worth watching in long-long time . 
if you have to see it , please = bring ear-plugs and some aspirins ( for the vertigo ) . 
expect armageddon = ld's to retail at s$19 . 90 at carrefour come release time . 
gee . . . . . . even 
= that's not worth it ! 
 " tina ! ! ! fetch me the axe ! ! ! " 
a favourite book of mine called the golden turkey awards relates the story that when mommie dearest was unleashed upon unsuspecting audiences back in 1981 , paramount soon realised they had a problem on their hands . 
it wasn't just the film's disappointing box office performance . 
indeed , in the coming years some people would be going back to see it two , three , even six times . 
no , the main problem was that what was intended as a serious biopic of screen queen joan crawford was turning into the laugh riot of the year . 
in a desperate attempt to capitalise on this unexpected turn of events , some publicity hacks dreamed up outrageous print advertisements screaming : " mommie dearest : the biggest mommie of them all ! " . 
executives at paramount were appalled and soon had the ads withdrawn , but it was all too late . 
mommie dearest was already cementing its place in camp cinema history . 
unfortunately , faye dunaway's energetic , at times ridiculously over-the-top performance is about the film's only redeeming feature . 
based on daughter christina crawford's trashy biography , mommie dearest chronicles a series of mainly private events in the life of her moviestar mother . 
if you believe this movie , it was a life was racked by obsession , lonliness , child abuse and rampant egomania . 
the film begins with crawford adopting two children , and concludes in the office of her lawyer where her now grown-up daughter and son find out they have been left out of their mother's will . 
joan always wanted her kids to be able to fend for themselves , you see . 
but that's about the only thread in the narrative that manages to survive to the film's end . 
the script - laboured over by four writers , a bad sign in itself - is a poorly connected series of episodes that builds little dramatic momentum . 
frank perry's direction is no more than competent , and dunaway's bitchy lines aside , the dialogue is flat and uninvolving . 
in fairness , the film's second half ditches some of the cartoon hysterics and does develop a degree empathy for its characters . 
when the adult christina moves out of home into her own modest dwelling , joan visits and keeps in touch , not helping her financially but encouraging christina's own acting and career ambitions . 
crawford does seem to care about her daughter , but you can sense the emotional distance and feel some of their pain . 
you also get glimpses of what the film could have been in the hands of better writers . 
ah , but there is dunaway's performance . 
and what a delicious piece of campery it often is . 
having just been sacked by her studio after a run of box office duds , crawford storms home late at night and proceeds to go ballistic in the garden . 
she has the maid drag the kids out of bed to come down and clean up the mess she's making . 
spotting a young tree she doesn't like the look of , she turns to the trembling christina and utters the immortal line " tina ! ! 
fetch me the axe ! ! " 
with which she proceeds to enthusiastically dismember the poor sapling . 
in the film's most outrageous scene , joan realises that some of her daughter's clothes are hanging on wire coat hangers . 
oh dear ! 
sounds like the perfect excuse for another temper tantrum , doesn't it ? 
this time she gives her daughter a horrible beating while delivering another classic outburst : " no . . . wire . . . hangers . . . . ever ! ! ! ! " . 
and later , when the board of her late husband's company pepsi cola tries to divest her of her directorship , she displays a superb grasp of business etiquette by jumping to her feet and roaring : " don't fuck with me , fellas ! ! " . 
oh joy ! 
something of a camp classic , then , but if that's not you're cup of tea then mommie dearest doesn't have too much to recommend it . 
better you see the real crawford in the women ( 1939 ) , mildred pierce ( 1945 ) or whatever happened to baby jane ( 1962 ) . 
great films distinguished by great performances , and a far more eloquent testament to this great woman than frank perry's shrieking piece of tabloid froth . 
phil ( radmar jao ) has a hairy problem . 
his beard is growing so rapidly that he has to shave every hour . 
he recently met the author of a non-fiction book on lycanthropy , also referred to in the movie as werewolfism , and phil now believes that his problem is that he has become a werewolf . 
using enough chains and handcuffs to be a hit at a sadomasochists convention , he ties himself in at night lest his urges overcome him . 
and phil is just one of the many quirky characters that inhabit shopping for fangs . 
made on a pittance , the film features an almost exclusively asian-american cast . 
as directed by quentin lee and justin lin , the movie is so amateurishly bad that it could almost be a parody of indie films . 
jeanne chin plays katherine , a meek and soft-spoken wife , who worries that her husband is unhappy with her because she is not giving him enough sex . 
we know this through the endless scenes of her confessing her sins , real and imagined , to her therapist . 
as her husband , jim , clint jung plays a muscle man with a macho crudeness . 
the picture is filled with stereotypes . 
there's a mysterious , loud-mouthed waitress with a big , platinum blonde wig who brags to everyone she meets that she's a lesbian . 
she spends most of the movie putting the moves on her favorite customer , a gay guy . 
and the lone white with a major role , the author on werewolfism , has wildly unkempt , orangey blonde , curly hair . 
from its opening scene of an attempted rape at knifepoint to its easy to guess ending twist , the script rarely has anything to offer . 
the story is so minimally developed that it feels almost like the actors were ad-libbing . 
one can only hope that the directors' next film will have some substance and some credible acting . 
shopping for fangs runs 1 : 30 . 
it is rated r for sex , violence , and profanity and would be fine for older teenagers . 
writer/director lawrence kasdan had a hand in penning some of the biggest film successes of the 1980s . 
yes , that's right , he co-wrote raiders of the lost ark ( 9/10 ) , the empire strikes back ( 8 . 5/10 ) and return of the jedi ( 8/10 ) . 
now with this film , it looks as though he has decided to test his skills at mediocre screenwriting and bland directing . 
and guess what ? 
he succeeds once again ! 
plot : a man with a shady and regrettable past decides to run away and into a small american town , where he pretends to be a licensed psychologist to an open-armed swarm of people with problems . 
it isn't long before he befriends the small-town billionaire , folks become suspicious and he falls for one of his own patients . 
critique : this film is not a comedy ! 
it is a drama . 
i say this right up front because from the looks of the trailer , you would think that this film secures its base in humor , but unfortunately for us , it does not . 
it is a serious film ( seriously flawed if you ask me , but i digress ) which offers a couple of witty quips to keep you awake , but overall , just sits there . 
now on to my review . 
this movie sucks because it was slow and boring , starred an uninteresting protagonist with an unbelievable past , included extremely dull patients whose problems left me indifferent at best and pissed at worst , and certified it all with many a predictable ending . 
i have no idea what lawrence kasdan was trying to accomplish with this picture , but whatever it was . . . he 
missed ! 
anyone without his name could never have made this film because it is an extremely generic puff-piece , which on a good day , might be described as predictably digestible . 
it's no wonder that the studio is trying to sell it as a comedy ! 
it sucks as a drama , and bored my movie cohort right to sleep . 
i've given it four points on four extremely shallow yet distinguishable marks . 
first of all , i couldn't help but think about how much the lead actor , loren dean , looked like a young charles grodin . 
he even acted like him , save for the dry , sardonic wit . 
this kept me interested in watching him at least . 
number two , and this one is really shallow ( seemed to be geared that way as well ) , there were quite a few " titshots " , as they would say back in high school . 
and god help me if i can't get enough of those in an aimless drama . 
and three , and this one surprised me the most , actor ted danson's cameo ( yes , he will always be sam malone to us real fans ! ) was the best part about this movie and actually made me see him as a different person . 
a different asshole , but a different person nonetheless . 
if ever you rent this movie one day ( promise you won't throw away your hard-earned money at the theaters ? ! ) , 
wait for his scene because it's actually pretty good . 
other than that , drab , drab , drab and drab . 
even jason lee , a personal favorite of mine , was left out to dry with lame dialogue and one of the phoniest romances to hit the big screen in a while . 
well , at least he finally " came out " and did some real skateboarding in this movie ! 
oh yeah , and i guess that's the fourth point in my rating . 
anyway , if you enjoy watching boring patients babble on about their boring problems to an uninteresting psychologist . . . this 
film's your bag ! 
otherwise , skip it and see analyze this ( 8/10 ) again . . . now 
there's a great shrink movie ! 
little known facts about this film and its stars : " three's company " fans alert ! ! ! 
terri from the tv show , also known as actress priscilla barnes , plays a small but pivotal part as the landlady in this film . 
the scene is actually a fantasy sequence and does feature cleavage , so stay tuned , kids ! 
also , it is to note that the actress was once named " penthouse pet of the month " in march of 1976 . 
she was known as one joann witty back then . 
she's originally from jersey . 
who the hell is loren dean , the dude who plays mumford in this film ? 
you got me , but all i know is that he was born in las vegas in 1969 and played the character of billy bathgate in the 1991 film of the same name . 
jason lee was born in the state of california in the year of 1971 . 
he was a professional skateboarder before his acting career took off after mallrats ( 6/10 ) , and even owns his own skateboarding company called stereo manufacturing corp . he's been in every kevin smith film except for clerks ( 8 . 5/10 ) . 
listen closely and you will hear the pharmacist in this film ( the ballooning actor formerly known as pruit taylor vince ) make a reference to the " lost ark " , which is obviously an in-joke , considering that it is the writer/director of this film , lawrence kasdan , who co-wrote raiders of the lost ark ( 9/10 ) . 
kasdan also played the part of dr . green in 1997's as good as it gets ( 8/10 ) . 
ted danson also played the role of lawyer peter lowenstein in kasdan's 1981 directorial debut body heat starring a sexy kathleen turner and william hurt . 
ladies and gentlemen , payback is the most expensive episode of " the equalizer " i've ever seen . 
gibson plays porter , a burglar shot and left for dead by his wife ( deborah kara unger , in an all-too-brief cameo ) and partner ( henry ) after a successful heist . 
as a morgue attendant sets about removing the bullets from porter's back , porter miraculously springs back to life . 
he makes it his mission , as a walking dead man without a conscience , to exact revenge on those who screwed him and reclaim his share of the loot . 
 ( in a running gag , porter demands $70 000 , but everybody mishears him and assumes he's after the entire $130 000 haul . ) 
in his travels ( or travails ) , porter encounters several other one-named villainous cretins like fairfax ( james coburn as a white-haired , millionaire thief ) and carter ( kristofferson , as a brown-haired , millionaire thief-the kingpin of the obligatory " operation " ) . 
helgeland's film ( which was recut by mel the producer ) is devoid of an imperative dime store charm . 
the novelty of seeing a big movie star mercilessly dispatching criminals wears off quickly : a ) because the bad guys can only be differentiated by their coifs , and b ) because mel's schtick doesn't evolve from act one-he's the terminator stranded in a plot without a sci-fi hook to keep us interested after the initial sadistic thrill is gone . 
payback should have been called playback : it's a 102-minute loop of the same short sequence . 
 ( mel : " i want my money . " 
anonymous villain : " no . " 
mel shoots gun . 
anonymous villain dies . 
mel meets up with his hooker friend ( bello ) . 
second verse , same as the first . ) 
it's not porter's single-mindedness that robs the film of snap , crackle , and pop ; as a character who has already " died " once , he has nothing to lose and so much to gain . 
the movie lacks danger . 
the only thing porter is in jeopardy of is putting the audience to sleep . 
payback has a gritty , metallic look to it that also becomes monotonous ; its cinematography would be more appropriate in one of those bleak urban psychodramas that come out of england every couple of months . 
 ( director of photography ericson core should have been fired early on for lighting bello , so va-va-va-voom in permanant midnight , to look like a potato in a gregg allman wig . ) 
to analyze such mediocrity is to grant payback far more attention than it deserves . 
perhaps only someone as experienced with antagonists-as-protagonists as tarantino-look what he did with the similar hero-less botched-robbery tale reservoir dogs-could have pulled off this material ( a loose remake of john boorman's point blank ) . 
the movie presents us with the conventions of pulp fiction ( all women are femme fatales ; even the cops are in on it , etc . ) and crosses them with the conventions of cheesy tv crime melodramas ( death is never in the cards for the main character , etc . ) but transcends neither . 
when you've run out of old tv shows to turn into movies , i guess you try video games . 
why did i go to see mortal kombat : annihilation ? 
the quest to seek an answer to this query may prove a better movie that the one i just saw . 
this film was a bunch of fighting , yelling , special effects , and bad acting set to an oppressive techno music soundtrack . 
the plot is fairly simple : a portal has opened between our world and the " outworld " , allowing evil forces commanded by shao kahn ( brian thompson ) to wreak havoc and attempt to destroy humanity . 
the good guys , led by sorcerer rayden ( james remar ) and human mortal liu kang ( robin shou ) , must take the fight to outworld , where the fate of both worlds will be determined . 
here's the catch : they must reunite princess katana ( talia soto ) , who's on the good side , with her resurrected mother queen sindel ( musetta vander ) , who's on the bad side , for their love for each other will close the portal and ensure humanity's safety for another generation . 
how this is supposed to work , i still have no idea , but i liked katana's line , " i knew love would keep us together , " since that captain and tennille song ran through my head and i got a good laugh . 
there are some seriously stupid things in this movie . 
take , for example , a transportation system which utilizes the " inner winds " , generated by earth's magma flows . 
you get in this metal ball which transports you through underground tunnels really fast . 
how fast ? 
as katana says , " you will be moving so fast , it will be as if you are not moving at all . " 
what ? 
later , sonya blade ( sandra hess ) goes to find jax ( lynn " red " williams , otherwise known as " saber " on tv's american gladiators ) at a medical research facility on the island of oahu . 
how do we know this is where she went ? 
there's a sign on the facility's perimeter fence that reads : medical research facility - oahu , hawaii . 
remember , this is not a caption , but an actual sign . 
i guess the location is on there for all those medical researchers who keep forgetting where they are . 
there's a lot of major flipping action , too . 
the first encounter between good and evil shows kahn and rayden swiftly arching though the air toward one another . 
do they land and immediately get into the fighting ? 
does one of them land first and catch the other off guard ? 
do they collide in mid-air ? 
no , apparently they flip toward each other so they can talk without having to yell from far away . 
why did they need those metal balls to travel ? 
everyone could have just flipped from point a to point b . 
i have to admit , the fight scenes are pretty good , although you can tell they are heavily enhanced by digital effects and fly wires , allowing the characters to surpass the limits of the human body and the laws of physics . 
the movie's thrills are derived from these scenes and most of the audience responses are on the visceral level when someone gets trashed really badly . 
 " ouch " was the most common expletive heard when i screened this one . 
you could tell that the filmmakers knew in advance that fights , not plot , would be the main draw , since dialog is apparently in the film just to get from one fight to the next . 
it seems that's all there is in this movie . 
maybe it is . 
as i had mentioned , the acting is bad . 
there's not one solid performance in the film , although williams as jax was pretty funny . 
after a fight between sonya and one of the bad guys degenerates into female mud wrestling , jax says , " you look good in mud . 
no , really , you do . " 
remar plays rayden with an inconsistency which makes it hard to take his character seriously , and shou is relatively emotionless as liu kang . 
brian thompson , who has played good guys , bad guys , and even an alien on tv's the x-files , but always some muscle-bound behemoth , is your average evil demi-god , but it's more the script's fault than his own that he doesn't have anything original to say . 
the one really impressive thing about this movie is that there is not one swear word in the whole hour and a half . 
another thing which should be noted is that for all its punching and kicking , blood only appears in one scene . 
all in all , mortal kombat : annihilation is loud , violent , shallow , and marketed toward kids . 
hey , just like the video game ! 
the swooping shots across darkened rooftops suggest a very tim burton movie , but , alas , no caped crusader descends to save * this * film . 
instead , it's a skeletal housemaid ( julia roberts ) who must bear witness to this unfortunate retelling of " dr . 
jekyll and mr . hyde . " 
for a few , fleeting , maddening moments , director stephen frears ( dangerous liaisons ) gets everything just right-- the tone , the colors , the characters ; all the ingredients to make a most-powerful potion out of valerie martin's best-selling novel . 
yet it fizzles too quickly ; the volatile mixture losing potency from the very first scene . 
casting is a large part of the problem . 
the story all but collap- ses around ms . roberts-- she doesn't have the range for this kind of drama . 
her accent also comes and goes , though it's nowhere near as glaring as the total lack of chemistry between her and co-star john malkovich . 
 ( he looks the same in both of his roles-- an incredible fact that's missed by everyone in the story ! ) 
the very british supporting cast-- including michael gambon and george cole-- gives credibility to the smaller parts . 
glenn close also appears as a madam that the good doctor calls upon . 
her performance is as close to intentional camp as the movie ever gets and-- as a bonus-- offers a likely peek at her upcoming cruella de ville in the live-action 101 dalmantions . 
the biggest botch in mary reilly is suspense : there is none . 
no terror , no tension ; nothing . 
without any weight , wit , or wonder to propel the story , the viewer is left with little more to do than pay attention to the period detail , a few buckets of blood , and stuart craig's fabulously dreary production design . 
all of which gets old after about an hour , at which point i recommend leaving . 
 ( the pacing in the second-half is especially abominable . 
if you * do * stick it through , your sole reward is a half-hokey special effect depicting the infamous transformation . ) 
mr . frears reportedly recut his film several times , missing several release dates in the process . 
 ( obviously , no one advised him to throw up his hands and just turn the whole damned thing over to mel brooks . 
blucher ! ) 
mary reilly is the second robert louis stevenson story of the month , after muppet treasure island . 
perhaps mr . frears should consult with brian henson on future projects . 
i daresay that even ms . piggy is a better choice for a certain roles than julia roberts . 
and she does have a great chop ! 
guilt . guilt is something i felt while watching basic instinct for the ninth time ; the penultimate t & a thriller , basic instinct made my last few teenage years worth living . 
but i know so well that it's a terrible film , made by a terrible director incapable of feeling guilt . 
verhoeven went on to make the even more offensive showgirls and , on november seventh , 1997 , unleashed starship troopers to innocent moviegoers like me , who cannot control the urge to see giant bug movies . 
the pic begins with the most unintentional laugh of the year . 
a simple , white on black title card reads " starship troopers " -my friends and i speculated that the night before the prints were shipped , verhoeven realized he forgot the credits . 
is this how a hundred million dollar movie should open ? 
were the rest of the film that subdued . . . 
starship troopers is about a group of white , blond-haired himbos and bimbos who all have spanish last names . 
they graduate high school , join the military , and then , rather curiously , decide to travel to an alien planet and destroy all lifeforms on that planet . 
the story is so incomprehensible , and told so bombastically , it's akin to 129 minutes of someone screaming punishments at you in a foreign tongue . 
 ( aside , club lovers will be happy to know that dance music hasn't changed in the future . ) 
one plus : starship troopers contains some very funny sequences , specifically the newsreels of the future . 
hysterically funny , actually . 
but the cynicism of these reports left me curious as to whether verhoeven felt pessimistic about the story in between . 
the storytelling lacks focus , to say the least . 
the politics of the film are scary . 
the actions of the major female characters are dictated by their out-of-control libidos . 
there's even a creepy sex scene : the lovely dina meyer makes out , nude , with the sickening van dien while half her face is covered by her opaque sweater , just the way he seems to like it . 
i use the term sickening because van dien is the least appealing actor i've encountered in a big budget picture ; all chiseled features and machismo , he even barks a eulogy at a funeral like military orders . 
of course , verhoeven's probably the one to blame , and perhaps i'm jealous because i'm so disgusting . 
at any rate , a movie called starship troopers shouldn't be about sex . 
exactly ten years ago , verhoeven made robocop , which was about nothing but skillfully made and oddly moving . 
and r-rated , despite its goofy premise . 
maybe it's asking too much for verhoeven to make a pg-movie , then-he's a master of insipid violence . 
however , ten year old boys would adore starship troopers if they could see it . 
 " what's your favorite new york moment ? " 
 " this one's climbing the charts . " 
starring john cusack , kate beckinsale , eugene levy , molly shannon . 
directed by peter chelsom . 
rated pg-13 . 
there's no doubt that 95% of romantic comedies follow a distinct pattern : guy sees girl , guy wants girl , guy goes through unreasonable obstacles to get girl , guy gets girl . 
in rare cases , the genders are flipped . 
predictability is a given . 
rarely , though , is a romantic comedy as cheap , as obvious , or as pointless as serendipity , a film that uses its " theme " as an excuse for its plot contrivances . 
 " lightweight " doesn't begin to describe it . 
this is like anti-gravity . 
it begins in a new york city bloomingdale's , a product placement that rivals cast away's fedex for sheer blatancy . 
jonathan trager ( john cusack ) and sara thomas ( kate beckinsale ) both go for the same pair of gloves . 
after going through the perfunctory motions , jonathan gets to keep the gloves and the two of them go out for ice cream , followed by ice skating . 
jonathan falls hard , and sara is charmed . 
when she writes her name and number down on a piece of paper , a truck rumbles by and blows it out of her hand . 
she takes this as a sign from fate that they shouldn't be together ; jonathan is flabbergasted . 
to pacify him , she comes up with an idea : jonathan will write his number on a 5 dollar bill , which she will promptly spend . 
when she gets home , she will write her name and number inside a book ( " love in the time of cholera " ) and sell it to a used bookstore . 
if the bill gets back to her or the book to him , it will mean that they are meant to be together . 
three years later . 
both sara and jonathan are now engaged to other love interests . 
both realize they aren't content . 
both go looking for the other . 
what happens now is so absurd that i'm almost tempted to recommend the film for the sake of seeing it . 
the two of them run circles around each other in a set of incredible " coincidences " that i would describe as contrivances if it weren't for the film oh-so-cleverly dismissing that criticism by building its plot around " serendipity . " 
of course , since the movie is about fate , the screenwriter can do anything he damn well pleases . 
i'm not buying it . 
there's no suspense in any of this because we know exactly what's going to happen , but serendipity insists on drilling its purportedly " adorable " non-story into our heads . 
instead of " will they meet ? " 
the question we're asking is " when will they meet already ? " 
to make matters worse , every " coincidence " is telegraphed from a mile away ; by the last reel i was bored enough to actively look for signs that something else " incredible " was going to happen . 
cusack is fine and beckinsale , at least , isn't saddled with another lumbering , clunky screenplay ( she's had bad luck , what with brokedown palace and pearl harbor on her resume ) , just an inanely pointless one . 
serendipity also relieves the tedium with the amazing eugene levy , who plays a snarky bloomingdale's salesman . 
what's the interest in watching a movie that spirals around and around a predestined ( no pun intended ) conclusion ? 
serendipity wants to tug at the heartstrings , but it only tests our patience . 
i didn't come into city of angels expecting greatness . 
i've never seen wim wenders' wings of desire , the classic movie upon which city is loosely based . 
then again , i have seen enough stories which are based upon a similar plot device , with the little mermaid ( both the disney version and the original folktale ) being among them , that i had some high expectations about the possible power such a story of impossible love can hold . 
unfortunately , city of angels ended up fulfilling few of them . 
the plot , for those that couldn't tell from the previews , revolves around the angel seth , played with an almost creepy intensity by nicolas cage , who , in the midst of his angelic duties , falls in love with a heart surgeon named maggie ( meg ryan in her most endearing performance since when harry met sally ) . 
of course , his being an angel prevents him from doing much about his love except appearing at random times to talk to her , watch her buy groceries , only to disappear in the blink of an eye . 
their love must remain unrequited unless seth decides to make the ultimate sacrifice and become human . 
using this framework as a jumping-off point , the movie attempts to veer through some heavy philosophical ruminations on the nature of desire , the joys of being human , and the definition of perfection . 
the first half of the movie succeeds on most points . 
cage excellently plays the eminently difficult role of an angel who doesn't know feelings so can't really express , preventing the character of seth from getting boring despite his limited repertoire of intent looks and hang-dog expressions . 
unfortunately , cage takes the intensity too far sometimes , and then seth comes across as more creepy than sensitive . 
as maggie , ryan manages to be convincing as a heart surgeon who has trouble coming to terms with her having lost a patient on the operating table despite having done everything right . 
her beauty , unlike her unbearable cuteness in french kiss , is mature , intelligent , and winning . 
likewise , some interesting ideas float around at the beginning of the film . 
when the camera pans through traffic jams and libraries and we get to hear the thoughts of the random people who flash across the screen , the audience experiences a little of what it must be like to be an angel . 
the beautiful camera work , shooting down onto the hectic world of los angeles from the improbable perches of the angels , also gives us a sense of the unique wonder angels feel . 
the film begins to lose its way , though , when the focus tightens more and more on seth and maggie . 
the grand , angelic perspective gets lost , except for some idly tossed lines about the incredible beauty of the world through an angel's eyes . 
the movie devolves into an examination of how seth can't feel the world or , more importantly , he can't feel maggie : he can't smell her hair , feel her touch , or taste the pears she eats . 
this change in focus attempts to capture the audience in seth's intense longing , but in doing so , the conflict disappears . 
if he wants maggie so badly , then why doesn't her just make the leap and become human ? 
after all , what's so great about being an angel ? 
sure , you get to sit on marlboro signs , but what's that compared to getting to be with meg ryan ? 
and from there , once the yearning has been established and the romantic denouement must occur , it's all downhill . 
the philosophy becomes heavy-handed , the dialogue pedestrian when it tries to be deep , and the plot twists simply attempt to yank a few more tears into the audience's hankie . 
it's the last thirty minutes of the movie , then , that wrecks the film . 
i feel like the writer , by pulling out all the melodramatic stops , has robbed me of what could have been a genuinely powerful movie experience on both the romantic and the philosophical level . 
i came out feeling robbed , seeing so much possibility in a film becoming nothing . 
i could go on longer , but i don't want to " ruin " the end by revealing any of the cheap plot devices the film relies on . 
city of angels , then , is a paradox . 
it's a well-acted ( particularly look for dennis franz cutting against type-casting as a happy-go-lucky fallen angel ) , well-filmed , and based on a wonderful idea . 
all these possibilities , though , are what make the film so unredeemable when the closing credits come up . 
plot summary : the year is 2024 . 
the ozone layer has long since gone and the earth is now protected from radiation by a shield invented by connor mccleod . 
the shield , although saving lives , has made the atmosphere hot and humid . 
connor is a mortal and a tired old man who has given up hope . 
on returning from the opera one night connor is accosted by the leader of a " terrorist " organisation . 
they have tried to find out what the company that now runs the shield unit are covering up . 
connor is then attacked by two assassins sent by katana from the planet zeist ( like zeit--get it ? ) . 
they fail and connor becomes immortal again by chopping their heads off . 
he then brings ramirez back to life in glencoe in scotland . 
both ramirez and connor are rebel leaders back on zeist and have been sent to earth as punishment . 
connor now has the option to return being the last one but opts to stay with his new found immortality and fight to find out about the company and the shield . 
katana meanwhile , fearing connor would return , sets out himself to kill the highlander . 
if you have never seen it . 
being a fan of highlander and mr . connery , i was in the cinema as soon as i could to see highlander ii : the quickening . 
i wish it had been quicker . 
i feel whatever else you can say about a film ( bad script bad music , etc . ) if you sit just plain bored through most of it then nothing much else needs to be said . 
the film was short but in my opinion only twelve minutes or so ( the time mr . connery is on the screen for ) is worth watching . 
the plot sounds a little ridiculous but i was willing to give it a chance . 
maybe they could pull it off . 
instead , i find that the characters have completely changed from those in the first film . 
it's as if they are different people with the same names . 
witness connor jumping into bed with the leader of the resistance -- where is the attitude of " who wants to live forever , when love must die " gone to ? 
the love sub-plot * must * have had footage cut out . 
the highlander and ramirez both seemed aware of powers they had never mentioned before . 
putting our heroes in deadly situations and then having them walk away because of some new power is very annoying . 
i still want to know why connor's coat becomes flame proof when he is immortal ! 
we are not given enough time on zeist to believe in it , nor are we told why advanced aliens still use swords to kill . 
why not dynamite or laser saws or just plain bullets followed by a quick chop to the neck ? 
i know the head needs to come off but you could at least immobilise your opponent with laser rifles first . 
to be fair one assassin tried this but he must be the world's worst shot . 
meanwhile connor develops luke-skywalker-like powers of laser beam deflection . 
as for " bad guys , " we see a rebellion on zeist , crushed easier than a grape and then the rest of the plot depends on katana being obsessed with killing mccleod in case he returns to zeist . 
two assassins are sent , presumably they are meant to be good at killing but an aged connor kills them both with no problems . 
no more assassins are sent . 
katana , supposedly a very powerful man goes himself to kill connor . 
has he no more assassins ? 
has he no better ? 
why was the rebellion crushed so easily then ? 
michael ironside is totally unconvincing ( bring back the kurgan ) . 
he seems like a cartoon character and really isn't that evil , just stupid and violent . 
we see the hollywood trick of the chief nasty threatening a child again and killing lots of innocents . 
yet he still seems like no threat -- perhaps because he seems too stupid to threaten connor , or maybe because his two best assassins wouldn't have been amiss with larry , curly and mo . 
so much for plot and characters . 
the music is atrocious . 
it is at best intrusive and at worst annoying . 
bring back queen . 
there was an audible sigh ( of relief ? ) 
when connor played a queen track in a juke box . 
i believe this at least is to be corrected for the american release . 
the acting is at best flat , except for mr . connery . 
lambert is uninteresting and when he delivered " there can be only one " this time around it just made me wish there had only been one -- highlander . 
michael ironside is unconvincing ; sorry , michael , i usually like you and everyone else was incredibly forgetable . 
so why 2/10 ? 
visually the film is interesting at all times . 
it has a blade runner feel to it and some of the special effects are quite stunning . 
add to this an irrepressible sean connery who smiles throughout the whole film -- or is he smirking to himself ? 
his lines and delivery might make the film worthwhile had it not been so obvious that he cannot take the whole thing seriously at all but hey -- * i'd * have done it for 12 million . 
oh , and i agree with a previous reviewer , she * does * look like sharon stone but i believe it is her first film . 
incidentally there is a line producer credited and i hear rumours of highlander iii : the wizard . 
200 cigarettes takes place on new year's eve 1981 . 
monica , played by martha plimpton is having a huge new year's party . 
everyone in town is trying to get there , but some are caught up in other things . 
this is the basic plot of 200 cigarettes . 
as we meet the characters headed towards the party , we are sent into many subplots which are unoriginal , and not interesting at all . 
this disappointed me greatly . 
the film should have been more about the party than the people trying to get there in my opinion . 
lucy , played by courtney love , is with kevin , played by paul rudd . 
the two are in a relationship that is more of a friendship , but starts to blossom into something more than that . 
this subplot is extremely boring and dull , and i am getting quite sick of plots like that . 
janeane garofalo is involved in another subplot , dealing with kevin . 
she plays ellie , an ex-girlfriend of kevin's . 
this subplot is completely a waste of garofalo's talent . 
there was no point to it at all , and it was hardly even in the movie . 
when lucy runs into a bartender , played by ben affleck , another subplot is formed . 
the bartender is invited by lucy to come to monica's party . 
at the bar , he runs into two more girls . 
the girls are played by angela featherstone and nicole parker , but unfortunately , due to the terrible acting of both of them , i don't even remember their characters names . 
ben affleck is a good actor , but his character doesn't go anywhere so he doesn't have much screen time to give a good performance . 
featherstone and parker are horrible in their roles , and they are part of the reason the film is so bad . 
christina ricci plays val , and gaby hoffman plays stephie . 
the two girls are trying to get to the party but are extremely lost . 
they meet some guys and end up going around with them all night . 
this subplot was alright , but it was quite annoying with stephie's accent . 
hoffman did an okay job of acting , but ricci did good . 
she was underused , considering she is such a wonderful actress . 
another subplot in the film is the relationship between cindy , played by goldie hawn's daughter , and jack , played by jay mohr . 
jack is an actor who doesn't care about the girls he goes out with , he just likes dates for one night , and the next day he doesn't . 
kate hudson is a huge klutz . 
she gets herself into very funny situations , that are the funniest parts in the entire movie . 
they are probably the only funny parts in the entire movie as well . 
this subplot could have been used more , mainly due to hudson's performance . 
mohr wasn't good , but he wasn't bad . 
he was just alright , which i didn't find acceptable . 
there is not much to say about the performances in the film . 
none of the characters are developed or shown enough to really tell if the acting is good or not . 
the only performances that i can judge are christina ricci's as always good performance , kate hudson's funny role , courtney love's mediocre performance , and paul rudd's annoying and overused performance . 
i was hoping for a little more out of jaw mohr , ben affleck , casey affleck , gaby hoffman , dave chapelle , and especially out of janeane garofalo . 
the two strongest things in the film were the great soundtrack and the original costumes . 
martha plimpton and christina ricci had very different and original outfits which made me feel like i was in the year 1981 . 
the soundtrack is full of 1980's tunes , ranging from " i want candy " to " tainted love . " 
the songs in the movie also helped create the feel that you were back in the 1980s . 
during the film , i often found myself asking the questions , " is there a reason to this ? 
is there any moral story ? 
is there a point ? 
are any of the events going on in the film necessary ? 
do i care what lucy and kevin are going through ? " 
the movie is extremely boring , and by the time they reached eleven-o-clock , one hour before midnight , i could not wait for the movie to be over . 
the plot is okay , but the subplots make it terrible . 
maybe if the film was about the party , not about the people at the party , it could have been a lot better . 
the bottom line : just like a slasher movie , this ? 80s comedy is just one too many . 
i'll bet right now you're just lounging by the pool , humming " i will always love you " and wistfully recalling your candlelight dinners with success . 
it isn't necessarily over for you : i say you still have enough charm that you could avoid starring in " kevin ! " 
for at least a few more years . 
begin by scribbling " the star that burns twice as bright burns half as long " somewhere you'll always see it , perhaps on the fridge door , or on a bedroom mirror with lipstick . 
you had a heck of a thing going there until you agreed to star in robin hood : prince of thieves , where you were not only upstaged by powerhouses morgan freeman and alan rickman , but christian slater ( ! ) , several dozen tall trees , bows , arrows , and a canoe , too . 
after dances with wolves and jfk , you decided the world needed more three hour movies , expensive three hour movies , so you starred in and produced wyatt earp ; wyatt earp the man was a boring idiot who made the history books solely due to a general lack of famous wyatts . 
wyatt earp was so dull a cowboy that he died of natural causes . 
tombstone was a vastly superior movie based on the same legend , and that featured kurt russell as earp and dana delaney as his girlfriend ! 
 ( she was played by joanna going in your movie-you know , the character known best in wyatt earp as " jew whore " . 
what were you and lawrence kasdan thinking ? ) 
now , you're suffering the demise of yet another of your epics , the postman , a film so financially disastrous that it all but eradicated the memory waterworld's and tin cup's mildly lucrative box office takes . 
the postman is not the worst movie ever made-people in hollywood are quick to forget movies like howard the duck whenever the next bomb comes along . 
yet it is a ridiculous movie . 
i suspect you thought you had another braveheart on your hands-why else line up two armies on horesback , all prepared for battle , for the climax of your film ? -but 
 " mailheart " the postman is not . 
 ( i can think of some more appropriate alternate titles : post encounters of the worst kind ; farewell , my salary ; howard the postman ; the postman's never watched twice . . . ) 
what a brown movie . 
i hate brown . 
you love brown . 
dances with wolves was golden and brown-it looked like an eggo commercial . 
the postman had me running for a glass of water every two minutes ; would the post-apocalyptic world look this maddeningly bland and dry ? 
what exactly happened to this desert world , anyway ? 
did we all become so stupid that we didn't immediately begin rebuilding homes , restaurants , and most importantly , shopping malls , after " the war " ? 
why did you choose to drive the movie's plot with a dumb group of terrorists who , well , terrorize townfolk across america ? 
why is it only * they * have ammunition , anyway ? 
was it really appropriate to cast your daughter as a girl who has a sweet crush on you , the drifter-cum-postman ? 
why cast english actress olivia williams as an american ? 
don't you realize that european women can only deliver their big emotional scenes in their native accent ? 
 ( take a look at the less-than-stellar performances of an american-ized nicole kidman or an american-ized minnie driver . ) 
who could give a damn whether you lived or died at the end of this movie ? 
if it came down to a fight for leadership between you and the leader of the terrorists , why didn't you do that halfway through the film and save us all a lot of headaches ? 
why cast will patton as the bad guy ? 
because you worked with him in no way out ? 
sure , he's a suitably creepy villain ; know why ? 
because he's creepy in everything , including armageddon , in which he plays a heroic astronaut who practically slithers into his space suit ! 
why heroize the most demonic institution in america , the u . s . postal system ? 
was tom petty supposed to be playing tom petty ? 
if so , why didn't he look more skeletal ? 
 ( he should have been around 70 years old . ) 
why , oh why , do i have so many questions ? 
 ( i could ask plenty more . ) 
shouldn't a three hour running time have provided you enough space to answer everything ? 
you have one great line in this film , and you deliver it to a mule ! : 
 " the things i like about my ass . . . " 
i had to wonder . 
actually , i enjoyed the tone of the opening scenes , a relaxed cynicism , if you'll accept such clunky phrasing-too bad you couldn't resist the temptation to film yet another love letter to your country . 
ultimately , i'm saying relax . 
there is no quota , no need for you to make a picture a year . 
settle down . 
really question future screenplays before you commit to them . 
feel free to write back . 
i know how much you like letters . 
 " i seem to have glued myself . . . 
to myself . " 
starring jason biggs , seann william scott , chris klein , thomas ian nichols , allyson hannigan , shannon elizabeth , natasha lyonne , tara reid , mena suvari , eugene levy , jennifer coolidge . 
directed by j . b . rogers . 
rated r . 
american pie 2 reunites the cast members from american pie in a different setting ; instead of being high school seniors looking to score before they graduate , they are now past their first year of college and have gathered in a beach house to enjoy the summer of their lives . 
jim ( jason biggs ) is still an insecure geek looking to improve his performance , oz ( chris klein ) is still the sweetest guy on the block , having sickeningly saccharine phone conversations with his studying-abroad girlfriend , stifler ( seann william scott ) is still a horny stoner , kevin ( thomas ian nichols ) still has no personality and finch ( eddie kaye thomas ) still longs for stifler's mom . 
have i missed anyone ? 
so , obviously , not much has changed . 
this is not a problem , provided that the movie boasts the rapid-fire hilarity and unexpectedly true sentiment of the original . 
but american pie 2 is the very definition of " sequelitis . " 
it's coarser , yes , and it pushes the envelope even more , but its heart isn't in it . 
it's easy cash to capitalize off the first film's success , but it would have been a worthier investment to prolong the franchise by coming up with something original . 
part of the reason why the film doesn't work , i think , is that while in the original the kids' quest for sex was a coming-of-age stepping stone as much as an outlet for their horniness . 
here , everything has been cheapened . 
they behave like those idiot frat boys who kill themselves drinking ; they have no motivation except for sex , sex , beer and sex . 
that's not to say that you can't make a decent comedy from that premise , but it is one of american pie 2's undoings . 
missing , too , is the sweetness that permeated american pie , the this-could-be-you quality of the main players . 
here , the characters are too aware of themselves as pop-culture icons , and they're even more one-note . 
stifler and finch are now caricatures while jim , oz and kevin are forced to make awkward self-discoveries at arbitrary moments , none of them betraying what the writers think the audiences want to see . 
and then there's the soon-to-be-notorious scene where jim superglues " himself to himself , " which perfectly demonstrates yet another of the film's ailments , one that also permeated say it isn't so , director j . b . rodgers' debut . 
there's a fine line between comedy and abject humiliation , and american pie 2 is on the wrong side of it . 
it's hard to laugh at the characters when you are profoundly embarrassed for them . 
i shielded my eyes watching this more than i have watching any horror movie . 
if there's one redeeming factor to american pie 2 , it's the inimitable eugene levy as jim's dad , who pops in on jim as he's about to score and utters lines like " your mother and i have been known to get frisky . . . 
not so much anymore , but . . . " 
and then when the girl's parents walk in , blurts out " this must be your daughter ! 
i didn't get her name , but hopefully my son did . " 
if only the rest of the movie had the wit and wisdom of levy's performance . 
this is an unworthy sequel to a gross-fest that brought back the raunchy teen comedy . 
the box-office of this onw should keep the genre going strong , which is disappointing . 
the genre needs a hiatus ; filmmakers are getting lazy . 
i'll be the first to admit it . 
when you mention the book great expectations , i immediately begin experiencing flashbacks to junior high english class , where i was confronted with a torturously boring book filled with people with such nonsensical names as pip and magwitch . 
yes , it's a classic of literature , but it was a rather dry one , shoved down my young throat like a spoonful of bitter medicine . 
certainly , the experience wasn't truly that bad , but , to quote ethan hawke in the latest movie adaptation of said book , " i'm not going to tell the story the way it happened . . . i'll 
gonna tell it the way i remember it . " 
anyway , to return from nostalgia lane , and get back to the present , hollywood , in it's trendy attempt to modernize the classics , now presents an updated film version of great expectations . 
instead of pip , this time the central character is named finn ( played as a boy by jeremy kissner , and by ethan hawke as an adult ) . 
finn is an orphan being raised by his unfaithful sister maggie , or should that be mrs . joe , ( kim dickens ) , and her boorish fisherman husband , joe ( chris cooper ) . 
the setting is the florida coast during the mid-70s . 
finn is a blooming artist , and spends his time running around the beach drawing fish ( one of his two favorite subjects ) . 
during one of these escapades , he literally stumbles upon an escaped criminal ( robert deniro ) . 
borrowing a page from the superhuman max cady , deniro's criminal has a seemingly limitless lung capacity , and favors hiding on the ocean floor . 
ok . . . maybe 
that's an exaggeration , but he certainly beats any of houdini's records in the opening scenes of the film . 
and that's nothing next to the fuel efficiency of finn's motorboat , but i digress . 
anyway , finn does the convict a good deed , just to show that he's a really swell guy . 
and then the plot moves on . 
enter miss havisham . . . or 
ms . dinsmoor here ( anne bancroft ) . 
abandoned at the altar some 26 years ago , ms . dinsmoor is the epitome of the crazy rich old maid . 
with bizarre clothing , eccentric mannerisms and a few pounds of makeup , anne bancroft seriously overacts in this role . 
although she ends up nowhere near a believable character , she does add some humor to the film . 
joe is hired to help with the gardening at her unkempt manner , but the insane ms . dinsmoor soon hires finn to be a plaything for her niece , estella ( raquel beaudene as a young girl , gwyneth paltrow as an adult ) . 
for no apparent reason , other than to provide the main plot of the film , finn is instantly stricken for the estella . 
perhaps it's her snooty attitude or her utter disdain for his person , or maybe finn has simply never met a girl before . 
in any case , neither as children nor adults , chemistry simply doesn't exist between the two , and yet finn spends the remainder of the film pining for her . 
even when , as an adult , finn arrives in new york at the behest of a mysterious benefactor , reacquaints himself with estella , and draws her portrait in the nude , there's nothing . 
in fact , there is more sexual tension between helen hunt and greg kinnear's gay artist during a similar scene in as good as it gets . 
at this point , the audience has grown as cold and detached as estella's character , and couldn't care less about the two characters . 
the bulk of the blame here falls upon gwyneth paltrow . 
she fails to imbue estella , a remote character in the book , with even the vaguest traces of humanity . 
there's obviously something wrong when , watching the film , you're more interested with how big her nose looks in silhouette than you are about her character . 
without a strong estella , finn's obsession seems baseless . 
you wish he would just stop whining , let estella marry his rival , walter plane ( an oddly subdued hank azaria ) , and just get on with his life . 
in fact , the two relationships that work in the film are purely tangential to the main plot . 
finn's relationship with his brother-in-law , joe , is interesting , if a bit stereotypical . 
what's more fascinating are his interactions with deniro . 
although it's only a bit part , it goes to show how much vitality a strong actor can create . 
it is apparent that director alfonso cuarsn put a lot of work in creating the imagery of the film . 
some of the shots work , but others are too obviously staged ( for example , both of the water fountain scenes ) to have any impact . 
finn's art ( actually the creations of italian painter , francesco clemente ) is used throughout the film , but it mostly fails to have the intended effect . 
we never see why finn would generate this style of art , which is simultaneously crude and insightful . 
as a result , it ends up as distant as the rest of the film . 
modernizing the classics is currently in vogue ( just see william shakespeare's romeo+juliet ) . 
simply update the action to a modern setting , and apply plenty of modern rock . 
but such adornments do little to perk up great expectations . 
as much as i dreaded the novel when i first read it , you'd probably be better off suffering though a reading than watching this romanceless film . 
 " you damn dirty apes ! " 
that's just one of the inadvertenty hilarious lines from planet of the apes that's taken on a comedic context over time . 
no one back then seemed to realize how over-the- top charlton heston's acting style was , but it shows now , particularly in this " mystery science theater 3000 " wannabe that was taken for a film masterpiece in its time , actually winning one oscar ( for makeup , no less ) and being nominated for a couple others . 
it also spawned multiple sequels like beneath the planet of the apes , escape from the planet of the apes , return of the planet of the apes , beneath the escape from the return of the planet of the apes , planet of the apes : the next generation , police academy of the apes . . . 
the list goes on . 
heston is an american astronaut who spends a few thousand light years in space with his three companions and ends up on a planet not too dissimilar from earth . 
the thing is , on this planet humans can't talk or think and the guys in the gorilla masks are the dominant species . 
heston's companions are killed or turned into vegetables by the apon is imprisoned . 
he surprises them all with his gift of speech , making two primate scientists ( roddy mcdowall and kim hunter ) believe heston is the missing link between ape and man . 
believe me , we movie critics have been thinking the same thing for years . 
when the two apes present the idea before a judicial counsel ( the head ape being shakespearean actor maurice evans ) , it is received as heresy , for all good monkeys know god " created ape in his image . " 
but heston has already seen a cave that contains evidence that humans were originally the dominant species , before apes ever gained the ability to speak and run for president . 
and he takes them there , holding up a baby doll and yelling , " if humans couldn't speak , then how do you account for this talking doll ? ! " 
and how do you account for your acting ability , mr . heston ? 
the absolute most laughable scene comes with the movie's surprise conclusion . 
i won't reveal the details except to say it involves heston falling to his knees on a beach and yelling " god damn you all to hell ! " 
several times in succession . 
the movie is atrocious and should only be viewed by those members of society who like to watch bad movies and laugh at them . 
what makes planet of the apes even more amusing is that it was supposed to function as some sort of social irony , a condemnation of fundamentals who reject the theories of evolution . 
but let me tell you , if darwin could see the ape masks and hear the rotten dialogue exchanges ( heston [to female ape] : may i kiss you before i go ? 
ape : but . . . 
you're so . . . 
ugly . ) , he'd convert to creationism on the spot . 
luckily for us , science-fiction movies have evolved over time to the point at which some of them are actually good . 
new address . 
same old attitude . 
don't forget to recommend a film , read the journal , or send me some of that nasty hate mail . ) 
starring bruce willis , billy bob thornton , liv tyler , ben affleck written by jonathan hensleigh and j . j . 
abrams directed by michael bay 
it rocks-actually , lots of rocks fly at us or from us , in slow or fast motion , at several points in the film . 
they seem like dangerous rocks because they kind of twirl through the air instead of just propelling forward , and when they land-once in a while , when we need a break from the space sequences-they cause damage enough to destroy the chrysler building and the like . 
 ( nary a mention of these apocalyptic events is made after they occur . ) 
they also just might be the most interesting element of armageddon , a steroid user's answer to deep impact . 
bruce willis stars as harry stamper , a famed oil-driller commissioned by the white house and nasa to stop a giant asteroid before it travels beyond " zero barrier " and destroys our planet . 
why an oil driller ? 
they require someone experienced with deep-core mining to plant a nuclear missile into said asteroid . 
 ( in one unintentionally ( ? ) 
hilarious sequence , nasa asks harry to inspect a deep-core driller they built based on his own blueprints ; it is poorly constructed-harry criticizes almost every aspect of it . 
we trust nasa to build space shuttles that can land on twirling asteroids ? ) 
harry assembles the obligatory " ragtag " bunch of " cowboys " , including a blond guy , a fat guy , a black guy , a wiseass , and the man who is sleeping with his daughter ( affleck ) . 
once they reach space , we experience sequence after sequence of something going wrong-perhaps the fact that they sent a bunch of nincompoops into outer space has something to do with it ; i cannot count the number of times they almost fail the mission on all my fingers and toes . 
whether or not they save the day , i will not reveal . 
nor will you care . 
i will say this : you know you're in trouble when deep impact dwarfs your asteroid movie in terms of emotion and scope . 
willis has barely a chance to come alive ; ditto for affleck . 
their big scenes are mostly reserved for the third act , in a last minute-and futile-attempt to inject warmth into the material . 
steve buscemi's character-the wiseass-is exceptionally problematic . 
 " rockhound " , as he's called , is sarcastic and foolish , so they tape him to a chair , where he spends most of the film . 
so why did they bring him up there to begin with ? 
rather , why write him into the film ? -give 
his almost-witty one-liners to serious willis , who scowls and mopes and demonstrates psychotic tendencies : at one point he chases after affleck with his shotgun for screwing his daughter , firing often and causing significant damage to his oil rig . 
i'm guessing he qualifies under nasa guidelines as someone unfit for space travel , at least in my world where the sky is blue . 
liv tyler is pretty and humourless , as always ; suspiciously , four of her father's band's ( " aerosmith " ) songs grace the soundtrack . 
director michael bay lays the visual and sound effects on thick , like ketchup , eventually drowning the movie on-screen . 
 ( the middle hour is a non-sensical , pyrotechnic assault on the average primate's brain . ) 
whenever someone dies in this movie , a crew member inevitably yells out " we lost ( insert dead person's last name here ) ! " 
i must admit that not once could i distinguish a dead oil-guy-cum-astronaut from a live one , and close-ups of the corpses' faces beneath cracked helmets provided little assistance , as their skin was often covered in fake blood . 
armageddon is not as terrible movie as godzilla . 
it looks nicer , and has fewer plot-holes within its equally ludicrous framework . 
it has a vivid soundmix . 
but at almost two-and-a-half hours , i could not believe how little actually happened over the course of the story . 
the love story has been played up in the ads , perhaps hoping to catch people before they recover from titanic-fever . 
bollocks ! 
the lovers in the film are miles apart throughout-erase all thoughts of nude sketching or car-sex and replace them with obligatory shots of liv tyler tearing up while ben affleck dicks around in a moon-crawler . 
remember a little film called jaws ? 
in this film , three independent-minded men suddenly found themselves on a fishing boat in pursuit of a deadly shark . 
they didn't much like each other at first ; eventually , they started to respect one another . 
one of jaws' great scenes involved the would-be-ahabs drinking and singing songs and telling stories . 
this is the sort of male-bonding foreign to bay or his producer , jerry bruckheimer , who throw too many characters into the mix and expect we'll care about them on the grounds that the world is about to end . 
not once do we get the feeling that these characters are even acquaintances-i'd be surprised if these actors bothered to introduce themselves to one another before " action " was called . 
a male friend who loved the film suggested to me that perhaps i cannot relate to a bunch of men who don't bare their souls , who believe in dying macho concepts like heroism and a kind of chest-beating bravery . 
to this , i will respond that the boys in armageddon are neither heroic , nor brave , nor smart , even : this team couldn't build a birdhouse . 
and if i get no respect for disliking a movie with all the synthetic feeling of a trailer-a trailer for a movie written by a team of body-builders and greeting card authors-i've never been a prouder wimp my whole life . 
the one question that eats at me after seeing corky romano is why touchstone spent so much money marketing this throwaway film . 
since june , i haven't been able to turn on the tv or go to the movies without getting hit by some ad depicting chris kattan as the spastic corky , shrieking out a-ha's " take on me " in his yellow miata . 
why would disney sink so much cash into the corky hype machine ? 
honestly , i was hoping that all the goofball ads were actually a front for a decently funny movie . 
man , was i wrong . 
corky romano is one of those throwaway , clich ? -ridden tv-star-to-film vehicles built upon the most rickety of plots . 
fortunately for chris kattan's precariously positioned career , corky does have some good laughs , even if most of them are of the lowest-brow variety . 
kattan plays the title character , the unsinkable assistant veterinarian corky who has a penchant for sunshiny '80s tunes , bright ties , and banal coffee mug slogans ( " you don't have to be crazy to work here , but it sure helps . " ) . 
when his mob boss dad ( peter falk ) is about to be put away on murder charges , his bungling , lughead brothers ( peter berg and chris penn ) rope in innocent , black sheep corky to infiltrate the fbi as an agent and steal the evidence . 
predictably , hijinks ensue . 
if the basic plot sounds bad , wait until you get into the inner-workings of this clunker . 
the writers will amaze you with the depth of their inanity . 
corky's fbi agent identity is named corky pissant ( " that's pronounced pees-ahn . 
it's french . " ) . 
he becomes a first-rate agent by accidentally stumbling mr . magoo-style onto the proper clues and talking his way in and out of situations , which plays like something out of a sitcom . 
and not a good sitcom , i mean . 
the romano family brothers even insult each other by farting in each other's face . 
and in a scene taken straight from there's something about mary , corky gives a dachshund mouth-to-mouth resuscitation . 
but it's not a complete disaster . 
the manic kattan does occasionally rescue some comic moments , including a bit featuring a cat in a fat suit named jesus and another involving schoolchildren , a german shephard , and a kilo of cocaine . 
plus , berg -- whose career has obviously gone downhill since the last seduction and chicago hope -- gives a great turn as the illiterate brother paulie . 
and , it's nice to see that richard roundtree of shaft fame is getting work . 
unfortunately for those out there who can't truly appreciate animal or fart jokes , corky won't have much to offer you . 
so the next time one of those pesky ads appears on your tv , asking , " who is corky ? " 
you can simply reply , " who cares ? " 
kids today , they don't just want to see heartthrob and master thespian freddie prinze jr . loving on the ladies . 
no , they want to see him doing something that takes a little more in the acting department : namely , playing baseball . 
through a series of drippy voiceovers , we are informed that there's no better proving ground for major league baseball than the cape cod summer baseball leagues , where college also-rans and hopeful dropouts go to play in the hopes of attracting big league attention . 
our man freddie has landed a spot as a pitcher on the prestigious chatham a's , where he is hoping for his big break . 
it's only after he is given ample time to show off his abs and scamper about in a woman's thong ( don't ask ) that we learn what the real story of summer catch will be : that prinze is a poor townie named ryan dunne , struggling to make a name for himself ; that neither his father ( fred ward ) nor brother ( jason gedrick ) pulled themselves out of their blue collar jobs and resent anyone who tries ; and that the local beauty tenley -- tenley ! 
 ( jessica biel ) -- is so far out of his league that he probably shouldn't even bother . . . 
but of course he makes a play for her . 
summer catch also makes an abortive stab at another half a dozen subplots -- the jealousy of fellow townie and brazen slut dee dee ( brittany murphy ) , the alienation felt by ryan's non-baseball playing best friend ( gabriel mann ) , or the fat chick fetish of fellow player miles ( marc blucas ) . 
worst of these is a ludicrous bit involving that '70s show's wilmer valderrama and beverly d'angelo , both of whom appear in the film simply to provide a nutty mrs . robinson-like substory and to remind you of how much better done that was in bull durham . 
in fact , virtually all of summer catch feels like it's been done better somewhere else . 
for starters , the film has a major question of identity . 
it's definitely not a sports movie , and it fails pretty miserably at being a romance . 
the worst part is the amateurish script ( co-written by an arli$$ writing alumnus and a guy that starred in leprechaun 3 ) , chock-full of phony emotion . 
by the end , it all becomes a platform for each character to deliver a soliloquy to ryan that he must take to heart . 
dad is on hand to give fatherly yet drunken advice . 
coach ( brian dennehy , just loving the fact that he's got some work on the big screen ) is on hand to give the curmudgeonly counterpoint . 
ryan's catcher ( matthew lillard , playing himself again ) is on hand to tell ryan to " play catch " with him and make fun of the fat fetish guy . 
ryan's stoner best friend is on hand to give the go-get-'em-tiger-we're-behind-you talk . 
and the girlfriend is on hand to give heartwarming-nuzzly-follow-your-dreams counsel . 
before long , you start to wonder : is freddy prinze jr . is capable of having a thought of his own ? 
don't answer that . 
the only real joy in the film is found in biel's character , and not just because of the skimpy outfits , which are also usually wet . 
she's the only one in the movie that is able to do much with her role , taking the rebelling-against-daddy character to at least a passing grade . 
when she's on screen , the time flies by . 
when she's not , you realize that for some ungodly reason this movie is almost two hours long . 
for a pg-13 teen romance ( despite near-constant sexual innuendo ) , one has to ask warner brothers : what were you thinking ? ? ? 
for her part , biel has fallen so far from her 7th heaven roots that she has almost become denise richards . 
hollywood is either about to eat her alive . . . 
or vice versa . 
either way , good luck , jessica . 
as for freddie , if he keeps pumping teen romances out at the rate of two a year , prinze's next " summer catch " is liable to be a venereal disease . 
plot : two sister witches have to live with a curse placed upon their family , which prevents them from ever enjoying a full life with a lover . 
the hex invokes the eventual demise of their loved one . 
when one of their past loves comes back to haunt them , they have to figure a way out of their eternal dilemma . 
critique : i've been waiting for a good witch movie for a while now , but hold on to your brooms and incantations , cause this puppy is far from being it ! 
for a film that has the word " magic " in its title , this movie contains very few moments of magic . . . or 
humor for that matter , drama , suspense , or romance . 
well actually , there is some manufactured romance within a plot that is so muddled , it never lets you in on whether it's a comedy , a drama , a horror show , or a murder mystery . 
or maybe it's a romance , eh ? 
it doesn't really matter , cause the characters in the film are so boring and uninteresting , that you have absolutely no basis on which to care for them , or the film as a whole . 
if only the filmmakers had spent as much time on the plot as they did the sinfully obvious soundtrack , this film might've had a chance to be more than what it is now . 
which is an unentertaining , crappy film that uses the witch angle as a diversionary tactic to weave us away from its grab-bag of stupid voice-overs , overdone songs , melodramatic romance , undeveloped story and uneven acting . 
i only wish that i could make that one hour and forty-five minutes of my life re-appear , but alas , it is lost in the spiritual world of " interesting ideas gone wildly awry " . 
little known facts about this film and its stars : this film is based on the novel written by alice hoffman . 
co-screenwriter akiva goldsman also wrote the screenplay for 1997's batman & robin . 
director griffin dunne is known mainly as an actor in such films as an american werewolf in london and after hours . 
tri-star ; rated r ( language , sexual situations , violence ) ; 87 minutes 
director and writer : darren stein 
cast : rose mcgowan , rebecca gayheart , judy greer , julie benz , chad christ , ethan erickson , carol kane , pam grier , tatyana m . ali . 
review by : geoff berkshire 
jawbreaker is the very definition of a " rip-off . " 
this uninspired teen comedy takes equal parts carrie ( 1976 ) , heathers ( 1989 ) and clueless ( 1995 ) and mixes in all the necessary teen movie clich ? s . 
along the way writer/director darren stein forgets to give the film a life of its own . 
the film opens with a voice over from geeky fern mayo ( judy greer ) about the four most popular girls at reagan high : courtney shayne ( rose mcgowan ) who can basically be summed up as satan in heels , julie freeman ( rebecca gayheart ) a good girl with the face of a supermodel , marcie fox ( julie benz ) a dim-witted blonde who demands that people call her " foxy " , and liz purr ( charlotte roldan ) an angel in disguise . 
liz is everyone's favorite because she's both beautiful and kind . 
liz is about to turn 17 and , as a prank , courtney convinces the other girls to help her in kidnapping liz on her birthday morning . 
in order to keep liz from making any noise courtney stuffs a jawbreaker into her mouth before they gag her . 
they then stuff liz in the trunk of courtney's car but when they open it later , polaroid camera waiting to capture the moment , their lives will never be the same : poor liz has swallowed the jawbreaker and choked to death with it lodged in her throat ( the audience is treated to a few too many graphic looks at liz's dead body ) . 
courtney , thinking fast , decides to pass the death off as a rape/murder and marcie and a reluctant julie assist her . 
things get complicated when fern discovers what the three girls are up to . 
in order to keep her quiet courtney comes up with another plan and transforms geeky fern into " vylette " , hoping that she will also help to replace liz in the minds of the devastated students . 
up until about this point the film is effective enough . 
however , an investigation begins into liz's death and the film becomes excessively dull . 
the recently rediscovered talents of pam grier are thoroughly wasted in the role of detective vera cruz and the film is downright insipid in its treatment of both the characters and the audience during this long middle stretch . 
courtney's plan to frame a sleazy guy ( marilyn manson , in a brief cameo ) is never believable for a second . 
meanwhile , the audience is stuck watching a string of random events which fail to develop the characters or add anything of interest to the plot . 
julie leaves the group and begins a lame romance with aspiring actor zack ( chad christ ) . 
he apparently gives her the courage to turn on courtney but the way things develop only make julie look stupid . 
fern's rise to popularity is equally lame . 
we do get the best scene in the film ( the only one with a spark of originality ) during this section . 
it's a smart and subversive bit where courtney gets the high school's resident jock stud dane ( ethan erickson ) to demonstrate , using a popsicle , exactly what he would like for her to do to him . 
it at least provides us with a look at courtney's personality but the way the scene finishes doesn't make any sense . 
stein is very conscious of the teen movie tradition he is working in and not only freely borrows major plot elements but also includes direct acknowledgment of this with some stunt casting . 
william katt and p . j . soles ( students in carrie ) are liz's distraught parents , jeff conaway ( from grease ( 1978 ) ) is julie's creepy single dad and carol kane ( the frightened babysitter in when a stranger calls ( 1979 ) ) camps it up as principal miss sherman . 
at times jawbreaker feels simply like teen cinema's greatest hits but the audience is cheated with watered down interpretations of the best this genre has to offer . 
the only notable aspect of jawbreaker is the incredibly stylish look . 
the costume design by vickie brinkford and the production design by jerry fleming are both bright and vivid . 
they were apparently instructed to work from the color palette of a jawbreaker and the screen is always splashed with bits of vibrant color . 
director of photography amy vicent , who beautifully lensed eve's bayou ( 1997 ) , does a remarkable job here as well . 
shot composition and camera movement is consistently impressive . 
performances are mostly sub-par with mcgowan providing only a few good moments ( compared with her excellent work in the doom generation ( 1995 ) and scream ( 1996 ) ) and gayheart making the biggest impression due to the sweet nature of her character and her obvious beauty . 
none of the actors look as if they have set foot inside a high school within the last five years with the exception of actress/singer tatyana ali , who has a small role as a cheerleader . 
the male cast all resemble male models and are credited with names like " auto stud , " " college stud , " and " high school stud #2 . " 
the soundtrack is decent and imperial teen's catchy " yoo hoo " makes a bigger impression than any other aspect of the film . 
 " with all that education , you should know what happiness is . " 
starring sylvia chang , teresa hu , hsu ming , li lieh , mao hsueh-wei ; directed by edward yang ; written by yang and wu nien-chen ; cinematography by christopher doyle and chang hui-kung 
every country has , eventually , its new wave . 
france had its nouvelle vague , brazil its cinema novo , china its fifth generation , and on and on . 
some waves just take longer than others , before they wash over us , cleansing us with the balm of discovery . 
taiwan's new wave came in the 1980s , in the work of directors like hou hsiao-hsien , wan jen , and edward yang ; that day , on the beach--yang's first feature--is central . 
it created a new language for young taiwanese directors , even if the first attempts to speak that language were hesitant and faltering . 
later works refined the techniques that yang first explored here , giving taiwan a distinctive international presence . 
that day itself is long and frustrating , the document of a nation's attempt to find a voice . 
it does not lack ambition . 
it anatomizes urban life in modern taiwan , in the manner of antonioni , elaborating the alienation that the westernized white-collar middle-class feel as their lives are shaped by old-fashioned roles--dedicated career men , loyal housewives--that they find unfulfilling . 
jia-li ( sylvia chang ) is the focus , but the film brings others into its compass--her husband , her brother , friends from her college days--as it charts her discontents . 
no one is happy . 
jia-li married her husband , we-lei , at a young age . 
at the time , her brother had been urged into an arranged marriage , despite his affection for another woman , and so jia-li's marriage seemed , in comparison , a good one : she chose we-lei of her own free will , they loved each other . 
but it goes wrong . 
that day dutifully presents all the clich ? s : we-lei becomes absorbed in his career , indulges in an affair with a co-worker ; jia-li feels restless and trapped , bound by a choice she made while young , but which no longer seems wise . 
the film never redeems these clich ? s by conveying the feel of authentic experience , the intensity of lived pain , and much of it seems trite and belaboured . 
it unfolds , awkwardly , as a series of flashbacks , told during a luncheon in vienna , where jia-li meets her brother's old flame ( teresa hu ) , now a concert pianist , whom she has not seen since college . 
both women seem rather sad , and resigned to their sadness . 
their circumstances ( and those of jia-li's brother and a college friend ) suggest not so much that they have made the wrong choices--married the wrong man , chosen the wrong career path , etc . --but rather that the choices available to them were inadequate . 
it is not that jia-li married the wrong man ; she didn't . 
the problem is that she needed to marry at all--and that if she did not marry , she would still be just as unhappy . 
for a woman in modern taiwan , that day tells us , the cards are stacked , the dice are loaded : she can play the game , but the house always wins . 
the film's sympathetic feminist implications are presumably the reason it caused such controversy upon its release in taiwan . 
seen now , it does not seem provocative . 
indeed , it's hard to imagine anyone having felt passionate enough about the film to generate any controversy : it may be ambitious , it may be innovative , but it is also terribly , terribly dull . 
and what was new for taiwan was not necessarily new for the rest of us : yang adopts methods established years before by antonioni and others , and his use of those methods is fumbling , uncertain , undisciplined . 
nor does he bring anything new--other than the locale--to the material . 
there are moments when that day takes on some of the emotional richness it strives for--in a young couple's first kiss , in the awkward meeting of a woman and her husband's mistress--but they are brief . 
too often , yang devotes needless time to mundane scenes--grocery shopping , flower-arranging--in which nothing happens , little is said , no emotion imparted . 
perhaps , if the film were content to focus on such reflective , inward moments , leaving us to guess at thoughts and feelings , it might have been ambiguous , suggestive , insinuating . 
but jia-li and her disaffected companions do not only brood in silence : they talk about their problems , at length , in detail , redundantly , and eliminate all subtleties . 
at two hours and forty-five minutes , it all seems exorbitantly long , indulgently long-winded . 
consider the defining moment for jia-li , the titular day on the beach . 
the thrust of the whole film explains , easily enough , what we are to think of that moment , what it means when she walks away from a particular situation . 
even so , the film has not one but two characters explain it for us verbally , in case we may have missed the point . 
needless time is devoted to expressing what should have remained unexpressed , and that is the problem throughout . 
the look of the film is as tedious as the drawn-out narrative . 
it was the first feature shot by christopher doyle--at least , it's his name in the credits--who is now rightly regarded as one of the world's leading cinematographers . 
in the freewheeling expressionism of his work with directors like chen kaige and wong kar-wai , he seems incapable of fashioning a boring image . 
you would never know it from watching that day , which , due either to doyle's inexperience or yang's humdrum direction , is almost perverse in its insistence on making the physical environment seem as drab and banal as possible . 
in scrutinizing the long decay of a marriage , that day manages to capture the ennui of the experience , but none of the damage , none of the heartbreak . 
the first in a very long list of things wrong with " i still know what you did last summer " is the title . 
think about it for a second . 
if the last movie was called " i know what you did last summer " , wouldn't the next movie have to be " i still know what you did two summers ago " ? 
if anyone working on this movie had an i . q . 
greater than five would have thought about it logically and said , " hey . . . 
wait a minute " . 
but alas , the people behind this film are obviously idiots , so i won't hold them to that . 
what i will hold them to is the fact that they have a pretty bad movie on their hands , even for a teenage slasher flick . 
i guess i'm one of the few critics who actually kind of liked the original film ( emphasis on the " kind of " ) . 
it wasn't great or anything and maybe not even necessarily good , but at least it didn't have me glancing at my watch every minute or so like it's sequel did . 
there are just so many problems with this movie that it's hard trying to figure out where to start . 
first of all , i guess , is the setting . 
the movie offers no rational reason why the film had to take place in the bahamas , other than the fact that the producers wanted a seaside setting . 
exactly why does the fisherman want to go through all the trouble of faking a radio contest to get julie james ( jennifer love hewitt , one of the only survivors of the first film ) and her new college buddies out to the islands before he hacks them up ? 
the movie suffers from this kind of logic all the way through . 
in one scene , julie is in a tanning booth at a deserted gym when the hooked fisherman with the slicker comes in and seals up the booth so the damsel in distress can't get out , no matter how hard she tries . 
when julie discovers she's going to slowly fry to death , she screams for help and her friends come to her rescue . 
now , this is all fine and dandy except for one thing ; instead of spending five minutes trying to bust open the booth , why not just turn the freakin' thing off ? 
in another scene , one of the characters , after having their significant other all but decapitated by the man in the slicker , says to julie , " just don't tell anybody it rained the whole time . " 
oh yeah , i've just been terrorized by a hook wielding sociopath and had some of my best friends gruesomely slaughtered , but hey , i'll crack jokes anyway . 
after all , it is in the script . 
the film's only saving graces are a few well-executed suspense sequences and a really cool cameo by the " re-animator himself , jeffrey combs . 
he brings some good comic relief and life to an otherwise limp movie . 
way to go , jeffrey . 
i have a hunch that the reason this film fizzles while the first one at least kept it's head above water is the recent absence of writer kevin williamson . 
with " scream " and even it's sequel , he displayed a real talent as a screenwriter . 
his ear for dialogue and the terrific endings he puts on all his films make him a standout from all the rest of the horror writers , and i think " i still know " has really suffered by not having him on board . 
the cool atmosphere is still there this time around , but i just didn't like the characters or the writing as much as i did in the first one . 
even though the movie doesn't have williamson , it still has a hacky ending , trying to do what kevin did with the first two " scream " s by ( some may consider this a spoiler , but if you have seen any horror movies whatsoever , then you should be able to guess the identity of the madman within twenty minutes ) having two killers and , this time , having one of them being a family member to the other . 
i think someone in the audience put it best when , after the movie had ended with another " the killer is back ! " 
cliffhanger , he said " who is this time , the grandma ? " 
all in all , " i still know " tries to be as successful as the first the film was , but really fails in the attempt . 
i mean , it's okay when slasher movies rip-off each other , but when they start copying themselves . . . 
 " there's nothing new under the sun " is a phrase often used when the speaker actually means " let's find something to copy . " 
of course there are very few completely original ideas . 
even earth-shattering concepts are built upon the vast body of human experience . 
there is , after all , no need to re-invent the wheel time after time . 
recently it seems that hollywood doesn't feel the need to even re-write the script . 
my understanding of the word " sequel " is a continuation of the story . 
the film industry has defined the word to mean reshooting the original with minor changes . 
have an overwhelming desire to see an inferior version of brian depalma's adaptation of the steven king novel ? 
this is your dream come true . 
rachel ( emily bergl ) , a high school outcast , is beginning to notice weird things happening around her . 
doors slam shut by themselves . 
glass globes blow up . 
her mother has severe mental problems and her father is absent . 
a popular boy unexpectedly asks her out . 
the in-crowd conspires to embarrass her at a public event . 
any of this sound familiar ? 
once the audience catches on that this is the same story as " carrie " , there's little to do but wait for the inevitable ending . 
the effects are a bit better this time around , but the film doesn't work nearly as well . 
there are a couple of minor plot differences . 
rachel lives with foster parents because her mother is institutionalized . 
the boys at her school are portrayed as even more evil than in the original . 
they keep score of their scoring with points given for each conquest . 
and , uh , there must be other story changes but none stand out . 
one nice touch is the casting of amy irving again as sue snell . 
over 20 years ago she was the one girl who tried to help carrie . 
now a high school counselor , she befriends rachel , but her character's potential is squandered . 
there's too much about sue that doesn't make sense . 
after the slaughter when carrie kills most of her classmates , sue is driven mad and spends time in the institution that rachel's mother is in . 
still living in the same small town , the woman with a well-known history of mental problems is hired as a high school counselor ? 
sue tells rachel that her telekinesis is a genetic disease . 
this may be the one original idea in the film , but the reasoning behind describing psychic powers as a " disease " is never explained . 
sue's eventual fate is an admission by director katt shea and writer rafael moreu that they had an interesting character but couldn't figure out what to do with her . 
blink and you'll miss it . 
some of the events are filmed in black and white , but the rationale for this is unknown . 
it doesn't add anything and the choice of scenes appears somewhat random . 
 " the rage " retains some of the trappings of " carrie " without the meaning . 
in the first film the color red was a motif connected to carrie's onset of powers at the same time she began menstruating . 
here there's an abundance of red , but for no apparent purpose . 
the casting of high school jocks and cheerleaders as villains is beginning to wear thin . 
one might be lead to suspect that most filmmakers were unpopular in school and the history of teenage films is an extended cinematic revenge of the nerds . 
the biggest mistake the film makes is including clips of the original . 
seeing sissy spacek on the screen only points to the quality of that film - and the flaws in this one . 
plot outline - wendy ( samantha press ) , a jazz singer , loves mack ( hugo race ) a criminal and wanna be rock singer who's planning a bank heist . 
mack is also being tailed by a couple of cops , one an inexperienced rookie ( dominic sweeney ) , the other ( john flaus ) a worn out veteran who frequents wendy's jazz club . 
they're tailing mack , because he has an audiotape that may show evidence of governmental corruption . 
meanwhile wendy's sexually awakener , fifteen year old sister ( rebecca elmaloglou ) has moved in with her , and is secretly watching mack and wendy's late night love trysts ? much zaniness ensues 
the review : main problem first - about 2% of rood rock star to actor conversions in filmdom ever really work . 
unfortunately , trying to cast hugo race as a violent , sexy criminal falls into the " what the hell where they thinking " category that takes up 98% of the rest . 
but , hell , it's not as if he's the only problem in this well-intentioned but ultimately below average aussie thriller . 
leads , race and samantha press are wooden and dull , hampered by some unfortunate attempts at sexy dialogue early on . 
though they do manage some heat later in their love scenes , helped , no doubt by them keeping their mouths shut . 
the film suffers every time the story shifts back to these two . 
which is unfortunately , the other main story isn't any great shakes either . 
the second part , concerning two cops , political corruption and that elusive tape is incredibly muddled . 
at many points during the movie i had no idea what was going on , a situation that didn't improve on repeated viewing . 
there is no doubt that this film's achilles heel is its script . 
as for the rest of the cast , it's a mixed bag . 
john flaus , one of australia's most criminally underused actors , is in top form as the withering , alcoholic jazz fan cop , who may or may not have sold out to the highest bidder . 
although he falters at one point , when the script calls for him to get up on stage and deliver a drunken beat sermon , but believe me , they way it was written , no one could have pulled it off . 
dominic sweeney is fine , though he seems to be uneasy in front of the lens but he really isn't given a whole lot to do . 
pre home and away elmaloglou is pretty good as the inquisitive jojo , but her character seems extraneous to the story , well , at least until the final scenes . 
i must admit , in too deep does have some impressive qualities , not the least of which is it visual element . 
cinematographers mark gilfedder & peter zakharov have achieved the almost impossible by making melbourne look like a sweat drenched tropic city , which is akin to turning london into san paolo . 
the bar is an oppressive red , like all of it's patrons are being baked while they drink , outside it hazy orange by day and cool blue by night . 
if only deborah parson's script could have supported this idea better . 
having two director's ( colin south & john tatoulis ) doesn't help either , the most glaring example of which is the final retribution/fight scene , where for some reason the camera pulls away from the onscreen action , and more importantly it doesn't pull away to anything else . 
it just stays static as the fight happens in the distance . 
it has no reason to it ; it's just bad direction . 
and , ultimately , that is what sums up in too deep , it's tries to be good , and you want it to work , but , it's just lacking the talent behind it , that it needs to succeed . 
the scene at the end of 1989's `dead poets society , ' when robin williams' english students stand up on their desk and say , `captain , my captain , ' gets me every time . 
unfortunately , the court room scene near the end of robin's newest film , `patch adams , ' doesn't have anywhere near the same impact . 
from the surface `patch adams' looks very promising . 
it's a story about a not so young man , patch adams ( robin williams ) , who finds meaning in his life through helping sick people . 
when the film opens , we find patch , depressed and suicidal , checking himself into a mental hospital . 
in a few scenes , strongly reminiscent of `one flew over the cuckoo's nest , ' he ends up helping the patients through their problems ; and it's here that he finds how much he loves working with people . 
so he checks himself out of the hospital , and heads straight to medical school . 
right from the start , patch uses comedy to help make the patient more comfortable . 
he continuously breaks medical tradition and makes the dean of the school angry . 
shortly after joining medical school , he meets and falls in love with carin ( monica potter ) . 
they , along with patch's dork friend , truman ( daniel london ) , start a medical clinic for uninsured people . 
once the dean catches wind of the clinic , he tells patch he can't graduate and kicks him out of school . 
patch , like what any true american would do , takes the school to court . 
it's here where the not so climatic court room battle takes place , over whether or not patch can become a real doctor . 
i have never seen a movie with some potential just completely blow it . 
it seems more like a series of short sketches , rather than a full-length movie . 
considering it runs almost two hours , much too long for such a light film , it could have flowed much smoother . 
not to mention the fact of how serious the film takes itself , and manages to cover all the cliches of bad melodrama . 
robin williams saves the film from being abysmal with several comic scenes that elevate the movie to entertaining and worthwhile levels . 
but those moments are rare and in the end `patch adams' is barely average . 
the real blonde ( r ) a woman's face , an arm , some pumped-up pectorals , blond hair , a man's sad face , slender legs , a random hand here and there . 
as the opening credits of tom dicillo's the real blonde unfold , these scattered , fractured glimpses eventually come together to form the image of a bikini brief-clad man on his knees clinging to a nurturing woman , his head concealing her unclothed breasts . 
if only the rest of this formless , aimless ensemble comedy assembled so coherently . 
joe ( matthew modine ) is a waiter/struggling actor too proud to take gigs in commercials or soap operas . 
he's feeling somewhat dissatisfied with his relationship with his live-in love , mary ( catherine keener ) , who holds some subconscious hostility toward the male gender . 
mary , a makeup artist , regularly works on model sahara ( bridgette wilson ) , who is obsessed with the underlying messages in disney's the little mermaid . 
the bottle blonde has a turbulent on-again , off-again relationship with bob ( maxwell caulfield ) , a soap actor who yearns for the taste of a real blonde , which he finds in co-star kelly ( daryl hannah ) . 
as the film unspools , a variety of other characters pass through : fashion photographer blair ( marlo thomas ) ; mary's shrink ( buck henry ) and self-defense instructor ( denis leary ) ; joe's casting agent ( kathleen turner ) and hardass boss ( christopher lloyd ) ; and a mystery woman ( elizabeth berkley ) who keeps on crossing joe's path . 
where exactly does all this go ? 
that's a question best posed to writer-director dicillo , who doesn't appear to have the slightest clue himself . 
his meandering , largely unfunny script and direction are like hopelessly lost drivers , turning into dead-end narrative streets only to reverse course and hit another creative cul-de-sac . 
and another . 
and another . 
at one point bob , frustrated with the soap scripts , complains to the head writer ( jim fyfe ) that his and kelly's characters keep on going in circles , with no hint of development or growth . 
that is most certainly the case here . 
joe gets a job and ultimately botches things ; he and mary bicker ; they make up , only to have the pattern repeat itself . 
unhappy with his bottle blonde , bob gets his real blonde but is unsatisfied ; he returns to the faux and is still unsatisfied . 
if there is a point to all of this , dicillo dances around it , spending his time on apparent digressions that , as it turns out , aren't digressions at all . 
the real blonde is not without some amusements . 
it does have the occasional funny line and situation ; leary , henry , lloyd , steve buscemi , and dave chappelle shine in their small roles ; keener is a likable , refreshingly earthy lead ; berkley's appearance is mercifully brief ( she receives outrageously prominent billing and ad placement for a ten-minute role ) ; and there is the irony of having caulfield play a wildly popular soap star who makes the ratings skyrocket ( last year , the actor was fired from the daytime drama all my children after a scant six months--due to lack of viewer interest ) . 
but on the whole , the real blonde is a frustrating sit that lives up to the stereotypes of its title--it may be glossy on the surface , but there's nothing going on inside . 
 ( opens february 27 ) 
 " jack frost , " is one of those dumb , corny concoctions that attempts to be a heartwarming family film , but is too muddled in its own cliches and predictability to be the least bit touching . 
this does not come as a surprise , since the studio that made it is warner brothers , who is on a current streak of one bad film after the other . 
jack frost ( michael keaton ) is a struggling middle-aged rock musician who loves his wife , gabby ( kelly preston ) , and 11-year-old son , charlie ( joseph cross ) , but doesn't spend nearly enough time with them . 
when he receives a call from a music label that wants to hear him play , he has to cancel his planned family outing up in the mountains for christmas . 
halfway there , jack has second thoughts , but on his way back home , is in a car accident and dies . 
switch forward a year , christmas is approaching once again , and charlie and gabby are still having a difficult time coming to terms with jack's death . 
when charlie begins to play the harmonica his father gave him the night before he died , the snowman outside the house is taken over by jack's spirit . 
jack wants to spend some time with his son before the upcoming warm front melts him , but charlie desperately tries to prevent his melting demise . 
 " frosty the snowman , " is a classic cartoon , and the idea of a snowman that is alive works splendidly when animated , but as a live-action film , it doesn't work at all . 
after a somewhat promising prologue in which the frost family is established , " jack frost , " quickly goes downhill , especially once the snowman comes into play . 
since jack has been deceased for a whole year , you would think there would be many questions to ask him , such as , " what happens after you die ? " 
or , " how does it feel to be a snowman ? " 
but instead , the film focuses on a snowball fight subplot and an inevitably oversentimental climax that could be telegraphed before i even sat down to watch the movie . 
the performances are respectable enough , but no one deserves to be punished by appearing in a silly film like this . 
michael keaton at least got off easy , since he disappears after the first twenty minutes , but what exactly does he think he is doing with his career here ? 
i have always liked kelly preston . 
she is clearly a talented , charismatic actress , but has never been given a good role in her life , usually having to settle for a one-dimensional supporting character , as in , 1997's , " nothing to lose , " and , " addicted to love . " 
joseph cross was probably the highlight in the cast , since he believably portrayed a boy suffering the loss of a parent . 
in one of the only subplots that actually works , due to its wittiness , henry rollins is highly amusing as a hockey coach who becomes terrified and paranoid after seeing the live snowman . 
this brief hint of cleverness is pushed to the side , however , by the tried-and-true main plot at hand , which is the sappy story of a father and son . 
since i knew what was going to happen by the time the conclusion came around , i had no choice but to sit there and listen to painfully insipid , cringe-inducing lines of dialogue . 
some of my favorites was an interaction between the son and father : " you da man , " says charlie . 
 " no , i da snowman , " replies jack . 
or how about this little zinger , coming from a school bully that miraculously becomes friendly towards charlie and tries to help him out : " snowdad is better than no dad . " 
do people really get paid in hollywood for writing pieces of trash like this ? 
the snowman , created by john henson's creature shop , is more believable than the snowman from last year's unintentionally hilarious direct-to-video horror flick , also called , " jack frost , " but it still was difficult to tell if it was a person in a suit or computer effects . 
either way , it was an awful lot of work to go through , just to come up with a final product as featherbrained as this project . 
as a seasonal holiday picture , " jack frost , " is pretty much a clunker . 
a better christmas film from this year is , " i'll be home for christmas . " 
better yet , my suggestion would be to stay home and watch a quality film , such as , " it's a wonderful life , " " a christmas story , " or , " prancer . " 
 " jack frost , " is an earnest , but severely misguided film , and children , as well as adults , deserve better . 
i doubt they would want to see a movie about the death of a parent , anyway . 
some movies require you to turn off your brain in order to watch . 
then there are movies that require you to accept that everyone * in * the movie has turned off * their * brains . 
the real mccoy is both . 
it's charmless , molasses-slow and so full of genuinely stupid people that the film commission of atlanta , where the real mccoy is set , might well consider some sort of ritual suicide for their complicity in this humiliation . 
the real mccoy opens with bank robber karen mccoy ( kim basinger ) being arrested in the middle of a job . 
six years later , karen is out on parole and looking to stay straight . 
she soon bumps into j . t . barker ( val kilmer ) , a hapless would-be thief who idolizes karen . 
j . t . also has ties to jack schmidt ( terence stamp ) , the man who blew the whistle on karen six years earlier for refusing to work with him . 
schmidt , who is in cahoots with karen's sleazy parole officer ( gailard sartain ) , again wants karen to help him stage a robbery . 
this time he has some leverage : karen's kidnapped son . 
just when she thought she was out , they keep pulling her back * in . * 
contrivances and sloppy plotting fly off the screen so fast and furiously you have to duck to avoid being hit by them . 
leading the list is the jack schmidt character , who through unexplained but presumably foul mains is already extremely wealthy when our story begins . 
there is no reason given why he should need or want to get involved in another crime , let alone why he would actually participate in the break-in . 
karen's initial encounter with j . t . during a botched convenience store hold-up also strains the limits of credibility . 
it would have been simple enough to have them somehow entangled at that point , but instead they run into each other the next day because they're leaving their parole officers at exactly the same moment . 
small world , eh ? 
then there's the convenient car trouble during an attempted escape , and pet tigers which , through the power of the laws of bad cinema , must inevitably confront someone who has blundered into their cage . 
however , the buffoon prize goes to the atlanta police , who come off like the keystone kops on a bad day . 
but the fun doesn't end there in the shambles of a script by william davies and william osborne . 
there is also the absence of a single , solitary interesting character . 
karen is earnest and single-minded in her motherly devotion , but lacking any kind of edge which would make her a convincing criminal , and basinger is not a thespian adept at fleshing out flimsy material . 
schmidt is a flaccid villain , the parole officer is a complete blank , and karen's son and ex-husband might as well be furniture . 
only kilmer's j . t . is remotely appealing , but his one potentially intriguing quality , his ineptitude , is never developed . 
in fact , kilmer disappears during the middle of the film , just when his admiration for karen could have made for an interesting sub-plot . 
i might have been more forgiving if the pacing had been more appropriate to a caper comedy , but the real mccoy goes nowhere fast . 
various scenes of sneaking and skulking seem to take forever , and some end with no reason evident why they didn't end up on the cutting room floor . 
even the reasonably clever climactic break-in falls victim to this syndrome , including a scene of one of the thieves drilling open a vault which lasts ( i kid you not ) four minutes . 
there is no tension in the scene , just tedium . 
russell mulcahy ( highlander ) is a director with some style , and indeed the real mccoy looks reasonably good , but he completely stumbles in the editing room . 
there are so many big problems with the real mccoy that i'm tempted to overlook the little ones . 
like karen disarming one of schmidt's henchmen and throwing his gun into the middle of a park where her son is playing . 
like a fountain crushed when a van runs into it reappearing in one piece a few moments later . 
tempted . but i'm pretty good at resisting temptation . 
you think that these people only exist in the movies , but trust me , they're as real as life . 
i once talked to a guy who thought the united states government was putting satellites into orbit which could fry an individual person's brain with microwaves . 
then i sat in a room full of people who believed that the government rigged state elections . 
i even listened to a man who swore that nicotine was an additive that cigarette companies put in their products for the specific goal of getting people addicted . 
these people had what are known as " conspiracy theories " - ideas about how unseen forces work to deceive and control the public . 
a little imagination goes a long way . 
in richard donner's conspiracy theory , jerry fletcher ( mel gibson ) is a new york city cab driver who seems to have a conspiracy theory about everything . 
his latest , that nasa is trying to kill the president by causing an earthquake from the space shuttle , might sound outrageous to us , but is all in a day's work for him . 
he combs the newspaper , looking for tidbits that leave telltale warnings about the goings-on behind the scenes , and from there jerry draws his conclusions . 
upstanding citizen that he is , he tries to convince alice sutton ( julia roberts ) of the justice department that the president must be warned . 
lucky gal , alice , who met jerry when he saved her from a couple of muggers and has had to listen to his theories during the six months since . 
what she doesn't know is that jerry's interest in her is far more than , well , professional . 
he goes to great lengths to follow her around and watch her in her own apartment . 
but when some secret government types seem to take an interest in jerry's ideas and his limited-circulation " conspiracy theory " newsletter , he finds himself in danger and in real need of alice's help . 
one of the problems with conspiracy theory is that it tries to pass itself off as an action-thriller when it seems to have neither a whole lot of action , nor a significant number of thrills . 
part of this is a result of the film's slow pace . 
it takes forever to set up the relationship between jerry and alice , and even once that is over with , the rest of the film seems to be a lot of boredom that every once in a while stops to take a break for excitement . 
at over two hours , this film could have been significantly condensed and had it's running time shortened by twenty minutes to half an hour , but even then , the action scenes would not be able to save the film . 
instead of truly exciting and engaging set pieces , we're treated to a few of the generic scenes with the requisite " black elements " : black helicopter , men in black action suits and body armor , black vehicles - you know the drill . 
they come on down with all kinds of neat gadgets and weapons , but for some reason a guy with just a bunch of theories and some chick with no training somehow manage to elude them every time . 
big deal , we've seen it all before . 
watching the film , i wished donner had at least tried to use a little imagination , but i was out of luck . 
now , when i say it took forever to set up the " relationship " between jerry and alice , i completely mean what one person is relative to the other , and not romantic involvement . 
oh , donner and screenwriter brian helgeland would like you to believe that by the end of the movie , the two main characters will end up falling hopelessly in love with each other , but there seems to be no evidence of that ever occurring . 
you see , there were more sparks between gibson and danny glover in the lethal weapon movies ( also directed by donner ) than between gibson and roberts in conspiracy theory . 
the two just don't click , and when you throw in a number of happenings that would cause alice to reject jerry altogether ( like finding out he's been stalking her ) , the subsequent attraction is absolutely forced . 
the script in general also seems forced , like someone sat helgeland down and forced him to write it , then took it and forced it upon us . 
dialog is undistinguished and rather unmemorable , to the point that i almost stopped listening . 
even gibson's usual gift for ad lib couldn't punch up the film sufficiently to raise my interest , although one of jerry's theories about oliver stone was mildly amusing . 
unfortunately , much of what's discussed in the film is not inherently important to what's going on , but instead filler that starts out with potential , but ends up just being extraneous because it's never followed through . 
for example , jerry professes that a man found drowned in his swimming pool was actually murdered by the government in a new york subway station . 
he even goes so far as to explain that the station was flooded at the time due to a water main break ( hence the water in a subway station ) , and that the coroner should check the man's lungs for chlorine . 
this is convincing enough to alice that she seems to believe him . 
you know what happens then ? 
nothing , zip , nada . 
no follow-up whatsoever , so what's the significance ? 
okay , here's another one . 
a couple of well known ( real life ) assassins were found to have possessed copies of the j . d . salinger novel " the catcher in the rye " . 
jerry also has a bunch of copies . 
whenever he goes into a bookstore , he has to buy one . 
leaving out the question of whether or not this makes jerry an assassin , we're never given a reason to believe why this would make him an assassin . 
not when we find out about his salinger collection , not when he goes to the bookstore , not later on when we get the answer to our first question . 
the point becomes totally extraneous . 
oh , did i mention that patrick stewart is in this film ? 
yeah , he plays this government psychiatrist named dr . jonas who may or may not be a bad guy . 
that's about it . 
for all the presence this usually marvelous actor has , he's nearly forgettable in conspiracy theory . 
you can just lump him in with the supporting players , with the exception of cylk cozart who plays agent lowry of the fbi . 
this guy was really likable , and i wish he and his character had gotten more screen time . 
okay , here's my theory . 
this really started out as a great film , but some of its jokes were actually true ! 
the government came in and forced donner to make edits for the sake of national security , and this was what was left over . 
my son and i share a perverse predilection for bad movies . 
we are amused and entertained by the cheap thrills , the corny dialog , the ludicrous premises and the bad acting . 
since other family members aspire to higher forms of entertainment , we usually wind up indulging our proclivity together . 
i can't remember when we disagreed on the relative merits of a clunker until species 2 came along . 
he was not amused . 
i on the other hand was able to easily suspend the applicable requirements in the usual manner and declare myself suitably entertained . 
perhaps the evident skills that were brought to the process of producing a bad product was what prevented him from extracting fun out of mediocrity . 
i on the other hand appreciated the fact that the producers and director knew exactly what they were doing : insulting my intelligence , and brought adequate movie-making skills to the project a movie does not have to be good to be well made , at least in terms of the craft . 
the movie could have been better if it were not so brusque . 
this movie slaps you with conception , pregnancy , delivery and young childhood in consecutive frames , without pausing for infancy . 
the producers of nescafe have nothing on this alien race in which a woman's womb balloons immediately after the male orgasm , and a few seconds later a young child tears its way out of her abdomen in a sloppy and gory version of an inside-out cesarean . 
an autopsy scene in which a buzz saw cuts through the cranium was not the kind of indulgence that i condone , to say nothing of the fact that it was scientifically incorrect . 
in a real autopsy the saw does not cut through the scalp ; it is used only after the skull has been exposed . 
the opening sequences of exploration of mars were very good . 
the writers showed excellent skills for ceremonial speech writing but the spontaneous dialogue would qualify for a subtitle : `as bad as it gets' . 
as the movie progressed i vowed to remember the lines that made me cringe but only one stuck . 
eve ( natasha henstridge ) was cloned from sil , the original alien sexual predator , but her mating instinct was artificially attenuated , which was all that was needed to turn her into a noble and cooperative prisoner . 
in a wistful display of resignation and understanding she tells her friend and jailer ( marg helgenberger ) : `i think of all the places that i will never see and all the people that i will never meet . ' 
it's enough to melt the most callous heart . 
at another point she protests : `i'm human too , you know . ' 
she is only half right . 
peter medak , the director , knows his business . 
justin lazard as the doomed astronaut does nothing to enhance his hollywood credentials . 
james cromwell , his father , is perfect in a short role . 
marg heldenberger , the dna scientist is pleasant and beautiful . 
natasha is an exquisite ornament . 
george dzunza knew and delivered what was expected of him as the dumb general that messes things up . 
michael madsen was there . 
black buddies do not usually survive in this type of movie but mykelti williamson manages to stay around for the final credits , which is more that we can say for lazard . . 
it seemed like the perfect concept . 
what better for the farrelly brothers , famous for writing and directing comedies with offensive subject matter , than to make a movie about a guy with a split personality ? 
it's exactly the sort of thing the brothers relish : poking fun at something serious ( in this case mental illness ) , throwing all care to the wind to get a laugh . 
jim carrey's signed on too ? 
even better . 
the national alliance for the mentally ill even helped out by levying complaints against the brothers' new film before its opening , claiming it was misrepresenting the condition of split personality , labeling it incorrectly as " schizophrenia , " and so forth . 
such a protest seemed like just the sort of thing that would , of course , only add more fuel to the farrelly brothers' fire , proving that some people just couldn't take a joke , and that the farrellys would be helping the more enlightened viewers to yet another dose of their brilliantly subversive comedy . 
yes , it all seemed perfect , but one thing went wrong : their movie isn't funny . 
it's not for lack of trying . 
the farrellys utilize in " me , myself & irene " their most high-concept premise ever : carrey plays charlie baileygaites , a man who after being dumped by his wife for a midget limo driver , decides to bury all his aggressive feelings deep down inside and never release them . 
this , of course , means all his neighbors exploit his entirely too-forgiving nature , making his job as a rhode island state trooper increasingly difficult . 
soon enough , charlie's repressed aggression manifests itself into a second , independent personality named hank , a deep-voiced , boorish ogre unafraid of taking the assertive actions his predecessor had been unable to muster . 
this guy isn't above crashing a car through the wall of the barber shop in which he's been insulted , or holding a little girl's head underwater because she refused to stop jump-roping in the street . 
then things start getting lost in the most complicated plot the farrellys have ever attempted , and the film runs off its tracks . 
some have suggested that this isn't a problem , because the farrelly brothers' brand of humor doesn't require plot to work . 
they're wrong , of course : plot was greatly instrumental in building up the kind of rollicking comic energy that infused the farrellys' last effort , 1996's " there's something about mary . " 
 ( 1999's " outside providence " was technically an earlier project . ) 
the brothers' earlier film wasn't funny merely because it contained outrageous gags ( despite what some newsmagazine articles would have you believe ) , but rather because its most outrageous gags were entirely unexpected . 
in " mary , " the farrellys managed several times to pull off a neat sleight-of-hand trick : they'd have you thinking the story was going one way , then reveal its real direction in delightfully surprising fashion . 
 " me , myself & irene , " by contrast , seems to have been made by folks who looked at " mary " and saw only the surface grossness , missing all of the subtle machinations that really made it work . 
having been produced by the same guys who made " mary , " " irene " seems like an even bigger disappointment . 
the brothers pile on the offensive humor , taking shots at race , midgets , albinos , mental illness , and all manner of bathroom jokes . 
but they haven't come up with a way to make any of it fresh most of " me , myself & irene " comes off as rote , by-the-numbers , adolescent comedy . 
the plot , with carrey forced to drive alleged fugitive irene p . waters ( renee zellweger ) , who's in more trouble than anyone knows , back to new york , has an ending that's entirely predictable from the get-go . 
 ( think charlie and irene will fall in love ? 
yeah , me too . ) 
the farrellys then introduce scores of different characters , and none of them ever manage to do anything you haven't already expected them to do , no matter how outrageous their actions might be . 
compared to the curveballs the farrellys are used to throwing , this stuff is almost entirely soft-tossed , presenting an obvious problem : when gross-out humor loses its shock value , it's no longer funny , merely gross . 
the jokes that do work are milked over and over until their effectiveness runs dry . 
take , for example , the subplot involving charlie's three black sons ( anthony anderson , mongo brownlee , jerod mixon ) . 
the incongruity of it all is funny for a while , with three burly black men discussing higher math in ghetto language and white-bread carrey mouthing said language with an entirely too-pleasant smile on his face . 
but by the end of the film , they're still doing the same schitck it hasn't been elevated to another , funnier level , and it hasn't been dropped either . 
that's too bad , because it ceases to be amusing about halfway through . 
 " me , myself & irene " reeks of wasted opportunities . 
there ought to be more focus on how other people react to charlie's new personality , and on how charlie deals with the consequences of hank's actions . 
this doesn't really happen nearly every supporting character learns about charlie's condition early on , so they don't have any opportunity to be surprised by it . 
the film throws what looks like a patented farrelly curve in a scene towards the midway point ( involving an albino companion charlie and irene pick up called , appropriately , " whitey " ) , but the script doesn't go anywhere with it , instead leaving the thread twisting in the wind before awkwardly tying it up during the climax . 
jim carrey is a gifted comedian , both physically and vocally , but he's left with nothing much to do here except contort himself in a manner similar to steve martin in " all of me . " 
it's a great showcase of flexibility and split-second role-shifting , but none of it is terribly funny . 
carrey doesn't pull any stunts we don't expect him to pull , and the farrellys' script doesn't give him anything else to pull : the situations in which he must perform the role-shifting aren't set up in any meaningful way . 
perhaps carrey can take solace in the fact that his supporting actors fare no better . 
zellweger's irene is not a strong female lead mary in " mary " may have been part adolescent fantasy , but she was also intelligent and strong-willed . 
irene is nothing in particular , as the film never makes clear whether she's ditzy , clever , or neither . 
as such , she gives us nothing to latch onto as the only " sane " person in the film . 
chris cooper is stuck playing exactly one note as a corrupt fbi agent , and his character is entirely too straight-laced for a movie like this . 
he , like the others , does absolutely nothing unexpected . 
after viewing the shapeless mess that " me , myself & irene " eventually dissolved into , i was stuck wondering whether or not the farrellys had outsmarted themselves . 
maybe their kind of comedy can only work for so long until audiences get wise to it and stop being shocked . 
but i don't believe it -- good filmmakers find ways of surprising their audiences even after people have grown attuned to their style . 
if the farrellys are indeed good , smart filmmakers ( and i still think they are ) , they'll rebound just fine . 
even after that happens , though , i'll still consider " me , myself & irene " to be a high-caliber misfire . 
wesley snipes is a master of selecting bad action roles . 
murder at 1600 , u . s . marshals , money train , drop zone , boiling point , and the ultimate camp film - passenger 57 . 
the art of war is another entry in this very ugly and unique category . 
ultimately , it is little more than a ridiculous action film with a plot as believable as the warren report , ugly violence that would have made peckinpah cringe , and terrible acting by b-list actors like michael biehn and anne archer . 
oddly , it feels like the undiscovered sequel to another snipes " masterpiece , " rising sun . 
the movie revolves around the convenient story of a special un operative caught up in a secret murder conspiracy involving a chinese ambassador , the chinese triad brotherhood , a rich chinese businessman ( played by ? that bad guy from rising sun , cary-hiroyuki tagawa ) a chinese un interpreter , and , inexplicably , donald sutherland . 
the film ends with more confusion than a boatload of chinese immigrants trying to register at ellis island . 
or should i say the film ends with the most blatant ripoff of both the matrix and all of john woo's hong kong films combined . 
i am really at a loss to figure out why wesley snipes had the gumption to not only star in this action dud but also act as one of the producers of the film . 
i usually enjoy snipes' movies - though his dramatic roles better show off his creativity as an actor than the flashiness of his action films . 
simply , i am amazed by the how inane the script was , filled with terrible cliches and extremely violent action sequences . 
director christian duguay ( screamers ) has a strange attraction to the viciousness of violent acts -- showing splattering brains , people impaled with broken shards of glass , and lots of gargling and gagging as blood sprays everywhere . 
it also sickens me to know that oliver stone , one of the greatest directors working today , had his hand in producing this monstrosity . 
i guess snipes sold stone on the conspiracy angle and stone chose not to read the script , watch the dailies , be involved in casting , or anything else -- or else he'd be filing a court order to remove his name from the credits . 
it's also seems evident that with the russkies as our new bosom buddies and the middle eastern terrorist angle being beaten to death in the last couple of years that the new international enemies in hollywood are the communist chinese . 
i'm sure over the next couple of months , even more " chinese conspiracy/martial-arts action flicks " are going to be popping up in your local multiplex . 
hopefully they won't include wesley snipes . 
senseless is a prime example of what can happen when you try to push a one-joke concept a bit too far . 
director penelope spheeris is no stranger to this , having subjected audiences before to such tortures as the beverly hillbillies . 
marlon wayans stars as darryl witherspoon , a college senior vying for a lucrative job at a prominent brokerage . 
however , he lacks the advantages of his chief opposition , scott thorpe ( david spade , in the smarmy sort of role he can deliver in his sleep ) : an athletic record , sponsorship by a fraternity , and , most of all , a wealthy family to back him up . 
in fact , darryl has to work at four jobs simply to make ends meet . 
but there may be a light at the end of that tunnel . 
he signs up as a human guinea pig in a neurological experiment run by the university's dr . wheedon ( brad dourif ) . 
as a result , his senses are magnified tenfold . 
using his newfound abilities , he sets himself in complete pursuit of the job ( unaware that there may be some disadvantageous side-effects to having super senses ) . 
naturally , marlon wayans plays this comedy at full throttle , giving jim carrey-ish amounts of physical humor . 
the problem is , aside from a few genuinely inspired bits , there's not much that's funny here . 
the film has it's one central gag , and pads out the rest of its length with rather obvious lowbrow humor . 
there obviously wasn't much thought put into the plot . 
the entire job selection process is completely ridiculous . 
i mean , why the emphasis on extra-curricular activities if the entire job is going to come down to a single-elimination quiz anyhow ? 
and is this the only job being offered to economics majors this semester ? 
to give it credit , senseless does try to create a secondary joke with darryl's roommate , tim laflour ( matthew lillard ) . 
apparently , he is supposed to be faddish , but the film never does anything with him , leaving him in a piercing phase throughout the movie . 
his " intervention " scenes with darryl , however , do provide a rare , and welcome , laugh . 
and then there's the love interest which is always pathetically tacked onto comedies like this one . 
in this case , the object of darryl's amor is janice ( tamara taylor ) , a fellow student who won't have anything to do with darryl until he gains his super-senses . 
needless to say , the romance is completely extraneous , and adds little to the film . 
this is a film that desperately needed something else . 
be that a good plot , more jokes ( or simply funnier ones ) , or a strong character or two , anything would have helped senseless get off the ground . 
as it is , all the manic exuberant mugging in the world can't help marlon wayans get this one off the ground . 
i came to an epiphany while watching the bachelor , an innocuous-enough-on-the-surface romantic comedy . 
it's not the sort of film in which one would expect to achieve any moment of clarity , but there it was nonetheless . 
i sat there watching this marshmallow of a movie unfold when suddenly i realized what is so ridiculously wrong with the entire romantic comedy genre circa 1999 . 
in a word , it's the same thing that's wrong with so many movies circa 1999 : writing . 
more to the point , it's the refusal to acknowledge that characterizations matter when you're telling a story about a relationship . 
the bachelor is merely the latest in a long line of films where we're expected to get dewy-eyed over any pairing of attractive , pleasant people just because they're attractive and pleasant . 
in this particular case , attractive and pleasant exhibit a is jimmy shannon ( chris o'donnell ) , a single guy who has been watching his friends slowly but surely sucked into marriage . 
it's a scary notion for jimmy , even though he dearly loves attractive and pleasant exhibit b anne ( renee zellweger ) , his girlfriend of three years . 
convinced despite his reservations that it's time to " sh * t or get off the pot , " jimmy proposes to anne -- very badly . 
anne refuses , which leaves jimmy in a very odd position when his eccentric grandfather ( peter ustinov ) dies and leaves a very specific video will . 
jimmy stands to inhereit $100 million if he is married by 6 : 05 p . m . on his 30th birthday , stays married for 10 years and produces a child . 
there are only a couple of minor problems : 1 ) jimmy's 30th birthday is the next day ; 2 ) anne is nowhere to be found , meaning jimmy has to find another willing bride from among his many ex-girlfriends . 
it's a wacky , brewster's millions-esque premise ( acknowledged as such in one of the film's better , more self-aware lines of dialogue ) , the kind where a shallow and materialistic guy learns what really matters . 
at least that would be the case if jimmy weren't already a world-class altruist . 
screenwriter steve cohen slides into the story an even more draconian condition in the will : if jimmy doesn't get married , not only will he lose all the money , but the family billiard table buisness will be sold out from under him , costing hudreds of jobs . 
from the outset , jimmy's motivation isn't cash ; it's the livelihoods of his devoted employees . 
it's almost embarrassing for his marital misgivings to play a role in the bachelor's plot development . 
by any human standard , the guy is impossibly selfless . 
and that's the essence of the gutlessness endemic to films like the bachelor -- the fear of giving the characters flaws to overcome on their way to happiness . 
there's never any tension between the two star-crossed lovers , because there's no sense that anything remotely significant is at stake . 
the blandly nice o'donnell couldn't pull off a randy cad if he tried , so the filmmakers don't even let him ; zellweger's anne may have issues with her sickeningly affectionate parents as an impossible standard to live up to , but no one dares make her anything but the woman ( lightly ) wronged . 
and forget about seeing enough of jimmy and anne together to feel invested in their potential reconciliation . 
the parade of sit-com set pieces had better be damned funny , since they're all that stands between us and a blissfully sweet foregone conclusion . 
i'll admit a couple of those set pieces are amusing , including ustinov's rantings about procreation and a restaurant full-to-bursting with men popping questions and champagne corks . 
far more of them are either tedious or downright ghastly , like the shudder-inducing sight of brooke shields as an icy fortune-hunter or the hideous collection of stereotypes when hundreds of potential brides gather in a church . 
you're never going to get too many raucous belly laughs from a film like the bachelor , but that's not the real problem . 
nor is it the real problem that you know exactly the kind of warm-n-fuzzy conclusion it's leading up to . 
the problem are a beginning and middle that are equally warm-n-fuzzy -- there's no spark , no energy , no humanity . 
it's an emotional pudding guaranteed not to offend any consumer's digestions . 
we've reached a point where our proxies for cinematic romantic wish fulfillment don't even have a pulse . 
the bachelor is love among the mannequins . 
are you like me ? 
do you get annoyed seeing people talk on their cellulars in public places , shouting out loud , not giving a ratt's ass about anyone around them , and basically just wallowing in their own self-importance ? 
well if you are , than you will most likely agree with my rating of this film since it basically features a trio of annoying ladies bickering away on the phone for an hour and a half . . . only to make up and hug in the end . 
aaaaaaaahhhh . . . 
plot : three grown-up sisters living their own separate lives , begin to re-establish their communication lines when their dear old dad falls ill . 
critique : this would be a good movie if it wasn't for the fact that it's got very little to say , features uncaring people sharing annoying phone conversations , is chockfull of bad acting moments and provides less emotional satisfaction than any third-rate after-school special . 
and i'm being nice ! 
how junk like this gets made is beyond me , but happy am i that the ephron sisters will finally be dealt a professional blow , considering the regurgitation level of their material had just about reached its limit . 
the only true emotional moment demonstrated between meg ryan's character and her dad in this film is when he hugs her and swings her around at a christmas tree lot . 
wow . . . how 
deep . 
of course , the same christmas tune that's played in every ephron flick chimes out in the background , while characters continue to build " bonds " among one another by making reference to old , quaint movies or movie stars . 
stop me . . . i'm 
gonna cry again ! 
this film is a mess . 
the characters are boring and irritating to watch , the plot has something to do with three selfish sisters talking on the phone a whole lot , kind of liking their father ( but not really ) and then finally realizing the error of their ways , while sharing an " emotional " moment about movie stars from the 50s . 
admittedly , i was not expecting much from a film whose television trailer features meg ryan screaming every two seconds and a big dog rolling its eyes , but even i was surprised at the level of ineptitude when it came to some of the acting efforts put forth in this film . 
meg did fine as the sister who cries a lot , looking as adorable as ever , but someone please put lisa kudrow inside a permanent home of limited range , cause this woman basically is that very same character that she plays in every single movie/tv show that she's in . 
enough already ! 
and diane keaton must've spent more time thinking about her role behind the camera in this one , cause her acting was amateurish at best . 
neither one convinced in " emotional " scenes . 
granted , they gave walter matthau the best lines in the film and that's probably where my rating of three points comes from . 
all in all , this movie is not funny ( unless you're one to chuckle at train wrecks ) , provides zero drama ( unless you consider loud phone conversations moving ) , generates absolutely no emotion ( although i did tear up when meg hugged a coffee machine ) and ends on a perfectly pretentious note ( " oh no , please don't get any flour on my donna karan dress ! ) . 
ugh . 
i suggest that all ladies take their husbands/boyfriends to see this movie if they are pissed off at them about something ! 
that'll teach 'em to mess with you ! 
oh and incidentally , mrs . joblo also likened this movie to a piece of cow dung flailing in the wind , so there ! 
then again . . . maybe 
you'll like it . 
 : ) 
i have a confession . 
even though i am a movie junkie-i saw eye of the beholder and yet i still watch movies-i've never seen any of the original godzillas . 
 ( note that godzilla 2000 is not a sequel to the u . s . godzilla released in 1998 ; it's the american release of a 1999 godzilla flick called gojira ni-sen mireniamu . ) 
so , part of me was excited as i drove to the local multiplex to see godzilla 2000-the latest entry in an almost 50-year old franchise . 
this was a long-awaited treat . 
i was expecting a goofy good time , complete with bad dubbing , science fair level sets and a ludicrous plot line . 
the last thing i expected was for the movie to be so ? boring . 
i can only imagine what the theatre full of kids i saw this with felt . 
you do get all of the " so bad they're good " traits so normally associated with the franchise . 
but you have to sit through a snoozer plot that has the organization of a rorschach blot . 
it's a deal i wasn't willing to accept . 
hiroshi kashiwabara and waturu mimura's script crams in way too many details , and in many cases , fails to follow up on them . 
the maneuver is not only disconcerting , but gives the movie a permanent logy , weighty feel . 
godzilla starts off destroying power plants and then just stops . 
was it a whim ? 
a bold political statement ? 
i don't know . 
its foe , an ancient meteor that looks like prudential's logo , doesn't just fight the beast from the far east . 
no , it's got to have life-saving powers , a plot to erase " the data " from japan , a desire to clone and the ability to become a spaceship and then some kind of tentacled space creature . 
there's a battle between the head of the godzilla prediction unit ( takehiro murata ) and a slimy government official ( hiroshi abe ) over the handling of godzilla , and personal issues . 
and then there's the plucky news photographer and blah , blah , blah . 
it's like watching magnolia all over again-except without the good writing , keen sociological insight and aimee mann songs . 
what a waste . 
when the talking and the plot points stop hurtling at you , godzilla 2000 does the job-it's entertaining and goes down easy . 
the action scenes are cheesy in their grandeur though a little sluggish . 
the dubbing is nice and awful , with murata sounding like he's in constant need of a cough drop . 
as for the dialogue , one line summarizes the goofiness factor : " did anyone see that flying rock go by ? " 
this movie also marked the first time since the three stooges that i've heard the word " imbecile " used in casual conversation . 
though the summer movie season is drying up and godzilla 2000 has its moments , i wouldn't take kids to see it . 
they'll probably end up asking more questions than charlie rose . 
capsule : five friends at a stag party are involved in the accidental killing of a prostitute . 
the cover-up attempt becomes a monster that eats up the friends , two wives and several innocent bystanders . 
this was a real audience pleaser at toronto , but it did not do much for me . 
 , low 0 ( -4 to +4 ) 
- directed by peter berg who acted in the last seduction and copland . 
- five buddies go on a stag outing to las vegas while cameron diaz works through the logistics of her upcoming wedding to one of them . 
one of the buddies accidentally kills a prostitute . 
- several people with no moral compass . 
they started out with a simple , innocent little cocaine party ( ! ) and by accident look what happened . 
they have one moral person among them ( daniel stern ) , and one totally amoral person ( christian slater ) . 
it is more selfish to let the amoral lead , so they do . 
- this film is strange , but not really funny or biting . 
black comedy should actually be funny as well as strange . 
there should be some element of satire . 
the satire is missing here . 
i did not find myself laughing here either . 
what we have is a strange crime tale . 
- one just does not care what happens to these people . 
- the same idea of people just getting themselves in deeper and deeper has been done frequently . 
if this film is popular it is just bringing a familiar plot to a new generation . 
- it begins like diner ( particularly with daniel stern ) and ends up like an extended horror/crime comic book . 
- there are several logical holes in script . 
if a security man goes to investigate a complaint and disappears , wouldn't the guests he was investigating be the first suspects ? 
someone framed for a crime in the way shown would be judged innocent after minimal forensic detective work . 
 ( i am desperately trying to avoid making this a spoiler . ) 
- popular and situation ethics get a real slamming . 
- some acting of grief is hammy and overdone . 
more yelling than humor . 
what hath kevin williamson wrought ? 
while the horror movie revival spurred on by his _scream_ has yielded a few decent entries in the genre--_i_know_what_you_did_last_summer_ , _halloween : _h20_ , and _scream_2_ --it must be noted that williamson himself had a hand in the writing of those films . 
those williamson-less post-_scream_ efforts , among them _wishmaster_ and the recent _disturbing_behavior_ , have been frightening all right--frighteningly , insultingly _bad_ . 
add to that list _urban_legend_ , which takes a promising premise and runs it through a predictable meat grinder of idiocy . 
the influence of williamson on screenwriter silvio horta is clear in two key areas . 
first , the opening sequence , like that of _scream_ , is an extended set piece detailing the singular murder that gets the proverbial ball rolling . 
this sequence , in which pendleton college coed michelle mancini ( natasha gregson wagner ) is decapitated while driving , also reveals the other obviously williamson-esque touch : the killer's look . 
dressed in a large hooded parka , wielding an axe , the killer bears more than a passing resemblance to the _i_know . . . _fisherman , 
sans the hook . 
one thing horta does not borrow from williamson , however , is the intriguing premise . 
students at pendleton are being killed by way of urban legends--those contemporary bits of " mythology " passed from person to person , group to group , year to year that become so embedded in the social consciousness . 
it hardly matters if they are true or not , such as the tall tale that mikey from the life cereal commercials died from a fatal combination of pop rocks and pepsi ( he didn't ) . 
michelle , slain by the " killer lurking in the backseat " of lore , is but the first to fall prey to an urban legend come true ; as the body count rises , fellow pendleton student natalie ( alicia witt ) suspects not only a link between the murders , but a personal link to her past as well . 
the setup shows promise , but the story never takes off , due in large part to horta and the director , the aptly named jamie blanks , who fires round afer round of his namesake in terms of suspense and scares . 
too many of the would-be shocks are fakeouts reliant on bombastic music cues , and the film's chase scenes are riddled with the cliches that _scream_ tried to subvert , like screaming damsels knowingly running themselves into dead ends when they should--and could--run out the front door . 
but that is just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to cliches ; there's also the climactic villain confession , in which a contrived and way-too-convenient motive is revealed , not to mention the credit card opening up the locked door trick , which is a cliche in any film genre . 
banks and horta's ( intentional ) attempts at humor are also lame ; the fact that the best gags are lazy , in-jokey references to the other credits of co-stars joshua jackson and rebecca gayheart says a lot about the imagination of their humor . 
some laughs are also had when the rather predictable identity of the killer is revealed , but i'm not so sure if some of the more hilarious things about it were meant to be so . 
the filmmakers don't get much help from their onscreen talent . 
i was far from a fan of bland _i_know . . . _ 
starlet jennifer love hewitt , but i'd talke her any day ove the dreadfully stiff and uncharismatic witt , whose inept attempts at emoting were often met with laughter ; witt has a pefect foil in her equally pesence-challenged leading man , jared leto . 
_dawson's_creek_ star jackson mugs his way thorugh a glorified cameo ; gayheart displays all the depth and range of , well , a noxzema spokeswoman ; and robert englund lends the film little more than his freddy krueger pedigree as a folklore professor . 
granted , the cast is hampered by their material . 
loretta devine , who has done some fine work in films such as _waiting_to_exhale_ , is saddled with the ridiculous role of a pam grier-worshiping campus security guard . 
the recently resuscitated horror genre cannot rely on the efforts one man--namely , kevin williamson--to stay alive . 
if other filmmakers continue to make such shoddy product as _urban_legend_ , the genre looks to once again go the way of screen slashers' many victims . 
warner brothers has scored another marketing coup . 
the one-two punch was started in the summer , with the release of batman forever . 
trailers for ace ventura 2 were bundled with the bat , ensuring that every jim carrey fan in the free world would know about the impending sequel . 
carrey went on to win raves as the riddler and the ever-wise warner chose halloween as the release date for the video ( $11 . 99 at wal-mart ) ; a mere two weeks before carrey's return in this marketwise , but misfired comedy . 
ace ventura : when nature calls is a painful reminder of just how grating the rubber-faced comic can be when allowed to perform within an uncontrolled environment . 
he may have been brilliant under the direction of joel schumacher , in batman forever , but , here , left to his own devices , carrey quickly wears out his welcome . 
the opening sequence is by far the best--an amusing spoof of cliffhanger , with ace performing a mountain rescue of a stranded raccoon . 
 ( you can guess what happens to mr . paws . 
hint : it sounds like splat . ) 
the plot quickly shifts to a temple in the himalayas , and then to not-so-darkest africa , where ace is on the case of a missing white bat . 
with his hair and limbs both wildly askew , carrey flies through his routine in about thirty minutes . 
the rest of the film is just more of the same . 
sure , the plot's linear , and the production values solid , but where is the scripted humor to support carrey's sloppy slathering ? 
writer and director steve oderkerk provides precious few set-ups . 
instead , carrey just mugs away , playing for the camera even when most of it isn't funny . 
the better gags have been shown in the ads , though a bit with ace emerging buck-naked from the backside of a mechanical rhino is something to see . 
though an arguable improvement over the original , ace ventura : when nature calls is still a snooze for anyone over the age of ten . 
the script is virtually devoid of wit . 
tribal mask jokes ? 
jerry lewis cameos ? 
forget it . 
if anything , the inexplicable presence of simon callow ( four weddings and a funeral ) and bob gunton ( the shawshank redemption ) suggests that working with carrey is the classical actor's ultimate challenge . 
just how long * can * they keep a straight face ? 
synopsis : wealthy cuban landowner luis ( banderas ) gets more than he bargained for when he sends away for an american bride . 
not only does his new wife turn out to be the beautiful julia ( jolie ) , she also harbours a secret past of dubious merit . 
soon , julia has absconded with both luis' fortune and his heart , and as he pursues his wife through the cuban underworld , luis begins to realise that , for him , there is no turning back . 
review : given the absurdism of its would-be plot , it's unlikely that " original sin " could have been turned into a reputable piece of filmmaking , regardless of writer , director or stars . 
this is , at its heart , b-movie junk : a lurid melodrama which appeals to neither the brain nor the heart but to the nether regions . 
that said , " original sin " could at least have become enjoyable junk had the filmmakers embraced its trashiness and indulged in it . 
instead , cristofer seems to have mistaken this for a serious production , and directs it as such . 
the result is a vapid , uninteresting morass of obvious crosses and double crosses , as likely to incite a yawn as a thrill . 
consider the initial sex scene between banderas and jolie : brightly-lit and mostly filmed from above , it looks like an excerpt from an amateur soft porn show . 
cristofer doesn't even manage to capture the allure of cuba ; instead of portraying his setting as a steamy , sensuous island paradise , it appears bland and lifeless . 
at least banderas and jolie manage to inspire some interest ; there are hints at times that they want to have more fun with the script , but aren't being given the chance . 
the same cannot be said of jane , whose billy is nebbish and transparent . 
also unwise is the jolie framing sequence , which practically gives away the film's denouement . 
when a pair of films from the same director gets released just three weeks apart , it could mean one of two things : that the recently overworked individual is due for a well-deserved rest , or that either of these movies has been sitting in a studio safe for a while and the timing is merely a coincidence . 
the latter's the case with john mctiernan and " the thirteenth warrior , " which finally hits theatres a year and counting after its original spring '98 opening - and fast on the heels of mctiernan's " the thomas crown affair " remake , a flick that got good reviews . 
you don't have to believe superstitions to wager a guess that " thirteenth " won't be so lucky . 
reportedly shelved following skirmishes between mctiernan and producer michael crichton , whose " eaters of the dead " novel provides " warrior " 's source ( and its initial title ) , this messy melange of culture-clash drama and brutal warfare feels empty and sluggish - sorta like " braveheart " without any of the passion . 
but the bloodshed certainly remains : there's enough carnage on display here to satisfy those in search of purely visceral thrills , though please note that the admittedly pungent battle sequences containing all this death and dismemberment alternate with talky passages interminable in their dullness . 
these circa-10th century clashes involve a roving band of cannibalistic creatures capable of decapitating opponents with their bare hands and a dozen norse soldiers out to stop them from terrorizing the viking countryside . 
the good guys are loud , crude , often unintelligible and - judging from their highly icky hygiene habits -- pretty smelly to boot , which makes them perfect foils for the dignified arab ambassador ( antonio banderas ) who tags along quite reluctantly . 
they're also so hard to tell apart that it hardly matters when a few of them meet violent demises . 
you'll wince , you'll groan , you'll grouse , " haven't we seen this guy killed twice before ? " 
banderas stands confused amidst the chaos , partaking mostly from a distance as savages in darth maul facepaint and draped in the latest animal-skin fashion run amok . 
he's not the hero - his soulful eyes and lean build don't exactly herald a champion of shwarzenegger proportions - and " the thirteenth warrior " wisely doesn't pretend he is , allowing his foreign and physically imposing co-stars to step into the spotlight when the going gets rough . 
let the characters interaction sans swords and shields , however , and there's still a struggle - for the audience to follow or even care about the story . 
it isn't the end until audiences have witnessed a half-baked romance , murky political intrigue , veteran actor omar sharif ( " funny girl " ) dropping by in a cameo role and a climactic " indiana jones and the temple of doom " -esque chase through the villains' underground lair . 
all this clutter receives stunning visual treatment courtesy of cinematographer peter menzies jr . , but the collaboration between " die hard " -helmer mctiernan and " jurrasic park " -creator crichton should have yielded more than sumptuous sights , graphic action and unintentionally telling moments . 
heard during " the thirteenth warrior " 's final scene : a dog whimpering . 
how appropriate . 
 " the red violin " is a cold , sterile feature that leaves you uninvolved and detached . 
it's a movie that seems almost clinical , as it traces the 300-plus-years history of the legendary musical instrument of the title . 
opening in the 17th century , the story shows how violin-maker nicolo bussotti created the instrument as a gift for his unborn son . 
but when tragedy strikes , the violin becomes the personification of its maker's grief . 
from there the violin comes into the hands of an orphaned child prodigy at an austrian monastery . 
again , tragedy strikes as the child is struck down at the moment of his triumph . 
we follow the violin through the centuries as it finds a home in england and in mao's communist china before being discovered by expert charles morritz ( samuel l . jackson ) , who mounts a painstaking investigation to prove its authenticity . 
the violin becomes morritz's obsession , just as it is for all those who converge on a montreal auction house to bid on it . 
morritz , however , is the only one who knows the secret of the instrument and can understand and appreciate its creator's intention . 
 " the red violin " could have been a touching , inspirational story , as soaring as a beethoven symphony . 
however director francois girard fails to make any emotional connection with the viewer . 
here is a story that could have made use of various camera angles and lighting to heighten its impact . 
girard , for some unknown reason , uses mostly master shots , keeping his camera - and thus us - at a distance . 
we get no feel for the miracle that is the violin . 
it's resonance , its purity of sound are not emphasized enough to make an impression . 
nor are any of the performances memorable . 
it's as if girard wanted all his actors to play second fiddle to his violin . 
 " the red violin " promises much , but delivers little . 
it is dull at times , a bit pretentious and a might murky . 
the movie's music soars over its story and performers . 
and that is its only saving grace . 
there have been merchant-ivory costume dramas with more of a pulse than " the mod squad , " a self-consciously " hip " cinematic rendering of the old tv series still looked upon fondly by so many baby-boomers . 
well , said " squad " certainly won't be a pleasant viewing experience for them or anybody else , maybe even the teen target audience the movie has been geared towards . 
a contemporary take on this decidedly '70s show doesn't exactly seem unwarranted , but one wonders if the mold it accumulated while waiting on the shelf didn't transform into a full-blown case of botulism . 
how curious that the film begins by defining both mod and squad , insisting that the latter is a group of people working together and then contradicting this definition by keeping its titular trio apart for a sizeable chunk of the running time . 
they are julie , pete and linc , reformed delinquents working undercover for the lapd ( exposition put out of the way so fast that you're likely to be lost from the opening moments on ) , and they are respectively played by claire danes , giovanni ribisi and omar epps , talented actors each deserving of better than this . 
their plight involves standard cop-corruption stuff , as our would-be protagonists catch wind of an internal cover-up after their superior ( reliable dennis farina , one of the best things here and gone so quickly ) gets killed and framed for drug trafficking . 
they pout a lot and eventually get cracking to expose this convoluted conspiracy using surveillance tactics that would impress the hardy boys and linda tripp but few others . 
when you're supposed to be asking , " what's going to happen next ? " , 
you'll instead entertain thoughts like " who are these people and why should i care ? " 
or " aren't thrillers supposed to contain thrills ? " 
not that danes , epps and ribisi don't give it a shot . 
danes can do the troubled teen thing in her sleep , as evidenced by " my so-called life , " but she's saddled with a mysterious-boyfriend ( josh brolin ) subplot so see-through you begin to seriously question her so-called intelligence . 
ditto for ribisi's ( " saving private ryan " ) looney loose cannon , though at least he performs with a wild-and-crazy vigor that occasionally demands attention . 
but epps - poor epps . 
epps ( " higher learning " ) is so short-changed he's reduced to literally waiting around for a bad guy to chase him . 
all this sloppiness can be attributed to the screenwriters , one of whom , scott silver , is also the director . 
they must think that if they dress up their stupid story in such spiffy trappings ( the look of the film is really quite impressive ) , it'll somehow pay off , but this " mod squad " plods anyway . 
characters are non-existent ; present are just some good-looking young things modeling cool levis and cooler attitudes . 
plot hardly escapes confusing convention . 
and the one genre element you'd think would be show up in generous portions - a few nifty explosions , some fights , any kind of action whatsoever - only rarely makes it to this dull gabfest . 
all those quick to put down last month's inept but serviceable " my favorite martian " update need to take a step back . 
here's a small-to-big-screen translation that really should've stayed in its former incarnation , " mod " or not . 
ready to rumble is not a masterpiece in film ; i have a problem even regarding it as a film . 
it's more of a show , a big commercial for ted turner's world championship wrestling ( wcw ) . 
the movie is almost entirely about and fully showcases the wrestlers of the wcw like diamond dallas page , goldberg , and sting . 
the story is very minimal and basic . 
there are these two guys , gordy ( david arquette ) and sean ( scott caan ) . 
they are two twenty-something wrestling fans from wyoming . 
when they go to a live event for the big match up , there favorite wrestler jimmy king ( oliver platt ) is defeated and his career is announced to be over by the mean commissioner titus ( joe pantoliano ) . 
gordy and sean decide to go on a quest to find jimmy and bring him back to the top and defeat the evil titus' plans . 
on the way , they meet some people , have some fun , and clean up some port-o-potties . 
sounds great huh , well it's not . 
the movie makes many attempts at humor , only a few of them work . 
the jokes that make you laugh , however , do not outnumber the film's many duds . 
there is a funny repertoire between arquette and a convenience store cashier played by ahmet zappa . 
the cashier is very mean to arquette so arquette dreams of ways to get him back . 
i especially enjoyed one version in which they have a wrestling match and arquette's tag team partner is 'macho man' randy savage . 
they wrestle between the aisles knocking over cans and getting body slammed on the floor . 
the other good part of the film is the sexual confrontation between arquette and rose mcgowan . 
mcgowan plays sasha the head nitro girl , the cheerleaders of the wcw . 
she becomes attracted to gordy and they have some nice , funny scenes together especially one scene in which arquette calls mcgowan's breasts foreign objects than punches her directly into the face . 
now what didn't work in this movie ? 
that would be the rest of it . 
the flick was filled with stupid potty humor about farts and toilets . 
the two lead characters work for a port-o-potty cleaning company and when they crash the truck , the excrements spill all over the road . 
it's not funny ; it's pathetic and brainless . 
the film is giving homage to how blindly faithful of their wrestlers but not all wrestling fans are that way . 
i watch it for entertainment and i would think some people would take offense to what is said throughout the movie . 
the main characters in the film actually get to wrestle , like that would happen to any fan , especially to 2 that stalk a wrestler and sneak him back onto set . 
also , i wondered how they got into the backstage so easily ; they just walked right in . 
i like wrestling . 
i watch it at home and laugh . 
it's continuously funny and has great characters otherwise i wouldn't watch it . 
this movie wasn't even funny or fun to watch like the wrestling on tv . 
the only fun i had in the movie was pointing out the wrestlers i knew . 
the funny thing was that many of the wcw featured wrestlers like saturn and chris benoit have left wcw for more money but are still featured in the film prominently . 
the movie was too dim-witted to be funny . 
it is possibly the most useless and under-developed film ever . 
a recent film in this genre of fans would be the kiss fan film , detroit rock city . 
that movie was interesting , well done and continuously funny unlike this film . 
the acting was good plus the jokes had humor and made you laugh . 
now that the scream trilogy is over , arquette has nothing else to do so he has to do crap like this and be a spokesman in those dumb 1-800-call-att ads . 
at least he has a hot wife in courtney cox . 
he's in the funny parts of the film but there aren't enough to make him look good . 
the music was bad also feature such overplayed tunes as kid rock's " bawitdaba " and " cowboy " . 
martin landau has a great cameo as a classic , hard-nosed wrestling trainer named sal that whips the king back into shape to regain his throne . 
script is important to a film but this piece of crap could have been made with a couple of scribblings on a napkin . 
a fan of the wrestlers who are featured in the film probably wrote it . 
at times the movie even tries to show wrestling as real . 
the wrestlers form alliances , go to people's houses and beat them up . 
it's utterly ridiculous . 
the whole film was a wasteful , dumfounding experience . 
the movie was made to pay homage to the fans , telling them things that made wrestling , not the wrestlers . 
the wrestlers are making more money to make a movie to thank the fans for begin fans by paying 5 dollars to see a potty-humor movie . 
the wcw sucks and this movie is just a pathetic two-hour commercial to watch it . 
if you're going to watch wrestling watch wwf , it's actually entertaining . 
the wrestling is betters , they're funnier , more diverse , and have better entrance themes . 
oh and the girls are hotter . 
is this what movies have become , 2 hour-long commercials that you have to pay to see ? 
don't waste your money . 
wyatt earp details thirty-five years in the life of same from around 1865 to 1900 . 
after seeing the movie speed twice recently , i kept thinking that i was seeing wyatt's life pass before my eyes in real time . 
this movie was boring , slow , boring , and slow . 
there were a few scenes that tried to be great scenes that tried too hard and just fell flat . 
the script happily woman-bashes but also tries to sound like an 80s movie . 
they cannot have it both ways . 
 " i now pronounce you husband and wife . " 
sure , they said that in the 1800s . 
 " entrepreneur . " 
sure . 
every bit of male-ego-stroking dialogue that wyatt's third wife speaks to him made me sick to listen to it . 
 " oh , the script was written by two men ? " 
 " no kidding ! " 
the movie is torture to sit through . 
the scenery is boring . 
the fades were either awkward or cliche or to self important . 
can you say poor editing ? 
everyone looks ugly in this movie . 
when you shoot people from under their chins , they look like they have double chins . 
kevin costner has never looked worse . 
he should sue . 
he looks like he gained the 43 pounds that dennis quaid lost . 
dennis quaid is marvelous . 
if you have to see this movie just for his performance , go into the theatre at the movie's halfway mark . 
doc holliday ( quaid's character ) shows up at about the 90-minute mark . 
gene hackman is very good . 
is he in the credits ? 
i don't remember seeing his name . 
mare winningham makes the best of a small role as wyatt's second wife . 
annabeth gish is good as wyatt's first wife . 
i though that jamie gertz played wyatt's third wife , but i later heard that her name is joanna going . 
she looks great but her dialogue sucks . 
she also seems way to young for costner . 
costner seems way to old for 90% of this movie . 
in his first scene he is supposed to be about 19 years old . 
yeah , right . 
catherine o'hara and jobeth williams are always good and totally wasted here . 
this is the worst movie that i have seen in years . 
the last action hero was better that this . 
go see maverick if you want to see a western . 
bullets for dennis quaid's performance only . 
david schwimmer ( from the television series " friends " ) stars as a sensitive ( and slightly neurotic ) single guy who gets more than he expected from the grieving mother ( barbara hershey ) of a classmate he can't remember . 
hello mrs . robinson ! 
though quite cute as a romantic comedy , the pallbearer is paced like a funeral march . 
the characters act , react , and interact at half-speed , making for one * excruciatingly * long sit . 
 ( and what's with the dreary lighting ? ) 
co-writer/director matt reeves brings some snap to the story's midsection ; the film briefly comes to life when our hero attempts to resolve his feelings for * another * classmate ( a very appealing gwyneth paltrow ) . 
by this time , though , most viewers will have either fled or fallen asleep . 
those tough souls who stay with it can marvel at the sleepy-eyed schwimmer , a hound dog with a head cold , who can go for over an hour without ever changing his expression . 
 " saving silverman " is a good example of a good comedy gone bad . 
as a love story it is good , however as a comedy it falls flat on it's face . 
i think throughout the short 90 minutes i laughed a total of seven times . . . and 
those were just chuckles at the most ! 
the movie doesn't have the oomph to make it a great movie , and doesn't have the script to make it a funny movie . 
wayne lefessier ( steven zahn ) , j . d . mcnugent ( jack black ) , and darren silverman ( jason biggs ) have grown up all their lives together , they have been best friends forever and vow to stay close till the end . 
while in a bar after doing a show with their band , based on their love of neil diamond , darren meets a young woman named judith ( amanda peet ) whom he instantly falls for . 
wayne and j . d . however think differently and when judith tells darren that he can never see his friends again , it's up to wayne and j . d . to try and begin saving silverman . 
the performances are topnotch and surprisingly , they are what keep the movie afloat . 
jason biggs right off the flop " loser " does an ok job playing silverman , but he is stale and flat at times . 
steve zahn is perfect in the role of wayne lefessier , and even though the movie is about silverman , lefessier is really the main character and the narrator of the movie itself . 
jack black is well jack black , and he does an all right job as j . d . but he isn't as funny as he has been in the past . 
amanda peet plays the ultimate bitch as judith , and neil diamond plays neil diamond ( he's better at singing than acting ) . 
anyway the performances in the film are good , but it's too bad the script isn't . 
speaking of script , hank nelkan's choppy script is not only badly written , but not funny enough even for an episode of sesame street . 
the trailer for the movie , as with most movies gives away everything that happens in the movie , especially the funniest parts . 
somewhere " saving silverman " was meant to be a good movie , and it could have been , but alas in the end it wasn't . 
dennis dugan's direction is all right , he adds a few directorial touches here and there , nothing special being a simple comedy . 
 " saving silverman " is a perfectly bad movie in more ways than one . 
it has a great cast , a good director and a sweet story . . . it's 
just too bad it has a bad script and is all together a bad movie . 
one of my brother's favorite movies is h . b . halicki's 1974 cult flick " gone is sixty seconds , " one of the best products of the car-chase genre that provided drive-in fare during the 1970's . 
chase pics had more tire squeals than dialogue , but they had a strong visceral appeal . 
although it boasts a bigger budget and familiar stars , the remake of " gone in sixty seconds " is relatively weak and dull . 
randall " memphis " raines ( nicolas cage ) is a retired car thief who runs a go-cart track . 
he got out of crime so that his younger brother kip ( giovanni ribisi ) would not take up boosting cars . 
however , kip became a thief anyway , and now he's in big trouble . 
kip promised to deliver fifty luxury and sports cars to gangster raymond calitri ( christopher eccleston ) by the end of the week . 
calitri expects memphis to fulfill kip's bargain ; if he doesn't come through , kip dies . 
memphis gathers his old crew ( angelina jolie , robert duvall , will patton , chi mcbride , and vinnie jones ) , and kip brings his boys ( t . j . 
cross , william lee scott , scott caan , and james duval ) . 
as if calitri breathing down their necks wasn't bad enough , the team is pursued by a cop ( delroy lindo ) who's still ticked off that he never busted memphis and by a rival gangster ( rap star master p ) who wants to take over calitri's clients . 
watching " gone , " i discovered that stealing fifty cars is not any more interesting than stealing one . 
maybe that's why the first forty-nine are fairly easy , and the thrills are saved for " eleanor , " a 1967 shelby gto , a model that has always eluded memphis . 
but the big chase doesn't live up to the long wait . 
i had high hopes for " gone " because it is director dominic sena's second film . 
 " kalifornia , " his 1993 debut , was a brilliant study in the relationship between violence and its audience . 
in that movie sena took a simple thriller plot ( a couple gives a serial killer a ride ) and successfully endowed it with deeper significance . 
in " gone " he seems to be aiming for a drama about two brothers who can't communicate with each other , but that goal just doesn't mesh with this plot . 
 " gone " either takes itself too seriously or not seriously enough . 
it's not light enough to be fun , or mean enough to be intense . 
this chaser has more dialogue than tire squeals but is none the better for it . 
the lack of action is a waste of the premise , which should have challenged the filmmakers to create the most spectacular car chases ever . 
the weak script is a waste of a talented cast . 
in a " newsweek " interview last year , sean penn blasted his old pal nic cage for making bad movies . 
much as i like cage , for every good picture he does ( " leaving las vegas , " " bringing out the dead " ) , there are two major stinkers ( " snake eyes , " " con air , " " 8mm , " " city of angels " ) . 
that ratio is probably better than what a lot of his peers can boast , but cage has real talent . 
it's a shame to waste it in glitzy , superficial tripe like " gone in 60 seconds . " 
steve martin is one of the funniest men alive . 
if you can take that as a true statement , then your disappointment at this film will equal mine . 
martin can be hilarious , creating some of the best laugh-out-loud experiences that have ever taken place in movie theaters . 
you won't find any of them here . 
the old television series that this is based on has its moments of humor and wit . 
bilko ( and the name isn't an accident ) is the head of an army motor pool group , but his passion is his schemes . 
every episode involves the sergeant and his men in one or another hair-brained plan to get rich quick while outwitting the officers of the base . 
 " mchale's navy " 's granddaddy . 
that's the idea behind this movie too , but the difference is that , as far-fetched and usually goofy as the television series was , it was funny . 
there is not one laugh in the film . 
the re-make retains the goofiness , but not the entertainment . 
everything is just too clean . 
it was obviously made on a hollywood back lot and looks every bit like it . 
it all looks brand new , even the old beat-up stuff . 
martin is remarkably small in what should have been a bigger than life role . 
in the original , phil silvers played the huckster with a heart of gold and more than a touch of sleaziness . 
martin's bilko is a pale imitation . 
the only semi-bright spot is phil hartman as bilko's arch-enemy . 
it's not saying much , considering martin's lackluster character , but hartman leaves him in the dust . 
have you ever been in an automobile accident where you've miraculously walked away with only a few scratches , yet the car has been obliterated into an unrecognizable , mangled wreck ? 
well , that has never actually happened to me and i hope that none of us will ever experience this situation . 
but after watching this inane exercise of a movie , i certainly feel that i've miraculously walked away unscathed after a two-hour ride that mercilessly careens back and forth before finally plummeting into an icy pond . 
oddly , `eye of the beholder , ' which is a psychological-romance-thriller , starts off promisingly enough when the opening sequence introduces us to a british intelligence agent , called the eye ( ewan mcgregor ) , working in washington dc . 
in the humorous opening scene , he eyes a top lawyer across the street in his office with his pants down . 
using an array of high-tech surveillance and communications equipment , he proceeds to transmit pictures of the bared lawyer to pc screens and fax machines in his office . 
the law firm's employees get a good chuckle . 
the audience gets a good chuckle . 
the eye is later given an assignment where he encounters a beautiful woman ( ashley judd ) . 
there is something compelling about this mysterious woman . 
despite her glamorous looks , however , we learn that she is a psychopath with a propensity to kill men that get too close to her . 
after the murders , she sobs while singing the christmas tune `little bluebirds' and laments about being abandoned by her father long ago . 
after each killing , she puts on a different wig , assumes a new name , and then makes her way to another state . 
the eye has witnessed all her murderous transgressions . 
but he does not alert the authorities . 
he somehow empathizes with her sense of loss . 
the eye , it turns out , also is haunted by his past . 
his daughter was taken away from him and he anguishes this loss every day of his life . 
his tormented psyche creates a ghost-like image of his daughter with which he engages in conversation . 
she becomes a sort of spectral adviser , and one thing that the ghostly daughter says is that he must help the woman . 
he now diverts his energies into trying to help her find some kind of salvation . 
it doesn't matter that he has witnessed all of her murders . 
and it doesn't matter that the eye is abnormally reticent , hiding his entire life behind computer screens . 
he follows her to a dozen different locales and shadows her every move to keep her out of trouble . 
when a crazed druggie ( jason priestley ) attacks her , he shows up for some quick butt kicking . 
when the police are closing in to arrest her , he provides a distraction so that she can escape . 
all the while , the woman has no idea who her guardian angel is and the eye stays just out of sight . 
peculiar . 
how bad is this movie ? 
i refer you to my `review quote source' litmus test . 
just take a look at the full-page ad in the newspaper and see where they are pulling quotes . 
for this movie , they are from magazines called `flaunt' and `mirabella . ' 
no doubt , they were impressed with judd's series of catwalks and disguise changes . 
the major problem with `eye of the beholder' is that the film jerks forward , always unsure of its ultimate destination . 
if it was a thriller , there was little to keep us entranced . 
if it was a love story , there was absolutely no emotional pull . 
completely disjointed in structure , it's only saving grace was its stylish look which reminded me of my favorite car commercial ( the one where the `6' on the tachometer dissolves into a winding road and a passenger rail car dissolves into a small miniature on a child's train set ) . 
i am also still hopeful that ashley judd will find a serious role to showcase her potential talents . 
beyond that , the film is hopelessly out-of-control and is in need of seriously better traction and handling . 
bad . bad . 
bad . 
that one word seems to pretty much sums up beyond the valley of the dolls . 
if that summary isn't enough for you , how about t&a , t&a , t&a ? 
still haven't got the point ? 
other than director russ meyer's predilection for casting attractive large breasted women who ultimately expose the afore-mentioned anatomical areas , there is really only one other reason to recommend even taking a look at this movie . 
that is the fact that it was co-written by famed film critic roger ebert , who also was responsible for the screenplay . 
after watching this movie you will never be able to sit through another one of his reviews where he gives a movie a thumbs down for bad writing with a straight face . 
this movie stinks out loud . 
quite frankly , this movie deserves a . 
but there are parts of it that are so bad they are almost funny . 
so i'm giving it a . 
and maybe that is too generous . 
right from the opening credits , i knew that i had a class-a bomb on my hands . 
not only are the way the credits actually shot distracting , but the first scene you see includes a big breasted young woman being chased by a guy in a nazi uniform . 
i had absolutely no idea why the hell that was happening ( it does get explained later ) and as soon as the first scene is over , we cut to a completely unrelated scene . 
to be honest , as i sat through this movie mesmerized by just how incredibly awful it was , i actually forgot about the seemingly out of place opening until it popped up again later in the film . 
with the quality of the writing during the rest of the film , it wouldn't have surprised me if the opening had never been explained . 
so what is this movie about ? 
you ask . 
like it really matters . 
ok , here goes . 
this all-girl band headed by kelly macnamara ( dolly reed ) and her friends go to hollywood to try to gain a foothold in the music industry . 
once there , they do manage to find success ( due as much to their hooters as anything else ? it sure wasn't for their brutally bad singing voices ) , and the movie chronicles how their lives change for the worse as the pressures of fame get to them . 
everything from big egos , to booze and drugs to free flowing sex sends them on a downward spiral . 
there are a couple of other idiotic subplots thrown in for good measure , but the fame is the one that pretty much sums up this thing . 
>from a creative standpoint there is nothing redeeming here . 
other than the above-mentioned obsession with big knockers that russ meyer seemed to have . 
the dialogue is so incredibly bad that it literally is funny in parts . 
mr . ebert has generously thrown in helpings of " hey man " , " dig " and my all time favorite -- " this is my happening , and it freaks me out " . 
now i ask you , with lines like that how can you go wrong ? 
ebert had tried to inject as many big words as possible into the dialogue . 
maybe he thought it would make the movie seem smarter . 
i don't know , but all the big words in the world wouldn't be able to disguise the bad writing and even worse acting . 
but the wretched dialogue goes along well with the wretched quality of everything else in this movie . 
i've seen home movies directed better than meyer managed with this turkey . 
in fact , there is one scene -- the one in which they are in a van driving to hollywood to make their fortunes -- during which i really had to question if meyer or his editors had just suffered serious head injuries . 
add to the directing and writing the music in this movie . 
i almost got up to check my sound system to see if it was broken , there was such a pile of crap emanating from the speakers . 
then we have the cast . 
first lets start david gurian who played harris , the manager of the band . 
this has got to be the goofiest looking guy that has ever set foot in front of a motion picture camera . 
sadly , his acting doesn't come close to making up for his looks . 
if you have been following along up to this point , this shouldn't surprise you . 
meyer's stable of well endowed girls also have the benefit of being fairly attractive to go along with their other assets . 
dolly reed plays kelly , the leader of the band . 
and no surprise here , she was cast for her cup size , not her talents . 
and yes , she does loose the shirt a few times and display her impressive talents . 
sadly , her ass is almost as large as her chest . 
hey , it a sexist movie , so i'm writing a sexist review . 
then we have former playboy playmate cynthia myers in a fairly small role as casey , one of the other band members . 
this goes along with the rest of the idiotic thinking in the movie . 
meyer casts a gorgeous playmate with a rack to kill for and who obviously has no acting talent at all , but her nude scenes are the biggest disappointment of all . 
sure russ , now is the time to get artsy and throw in some well placed shadows . 
on the up side , she does have a fun lesbo scene . 
i sound like i'm writing a review in a porn magazine . 
but hey , i'll admit it ; the only reason that i actually managed to sit through this damn movie was to catch a look at cynthia myers naked . 
and since that was a huge disappointment , i pretty much wasted two hours of my life on this turkey . 
the only thing that i can say about this movie is that you should stay away from it . 
unless of course you want to feel good about yourself by knowing that even a pulitzer prize winning film critic like roger ebert has screwed up at least once in his life too . 
and if you are thinking of checking it out for the double d's -- you are better off just downloading nude cynthia myers pictures off the internet . 
this is a movie that should be avoided at all costs . 
an even better idea might be to require video stores to place a warning on the box of beyond the valley of the dolls -- beware : this movie is extremely hazardous to your common sense . 
proceed with extreme caution . 
by-the-numbers : a film which introduces characters , situations , dilemmas and developments that we've seen before in a parade of other films . 
a film which can easily be guessed out by the end of frame number one . 
a film which is packed to the cap with predictability , leading to very little tension , excitement , suspense or interest on the part of its paying audience . 
in short , a clich ? -ridden formula film . 
welcome to my review of the general's daughter . 
plot : an undercover army detective and a rape counselor find themselves locked inside an investigation into some bigwig general daughter's rape , torture and murder . 
they must delve through all of the unspoken army rules and the hush-hushes , to figure out the conspiracy behind the shocking murder . 
critique : by the numbers ( see above ) . 
this film is just there . 
it sits there on the big screen for a couple of hours , floats around , goes away , hopefully never to be heard from again . 
it is so predictable that even a blind man could see its plot points coming a mile away . 
it's as suspenseful as a leaf dropping from a tree . 
it's as action-packed as a canadian curling tournament . 
get the picture ? 
i sure did . . . it's 
too bad that it took my friend and i less than two minutes to figure out the entire plot , and to break down each scene before it was even completed . 
easy as pie . 
it's unfortunate because james woods and john travolta actually have one extremely enjoyable scene together near the beginning of the film , but alas , t'was not to be ( that scene alone scored two of my four points allotted . ) 
woods chews it up in the few scenes that he's in , travolta passes the test , cromwell plays , well , cromwell , and stowe is window dressing with a smile ( mia since 12 monkeys ( 8/10 ) it seems ) . 
and this predictability isn't reserved only to those who have seen films like courage under fire or a few good men , it runs deep inside every one of us who knows to suspect someone as soon as they see their obvious guilty mug on the big screen . 
it's like riding a bike . 
other scenarios which sponge out any tension , suspense or interest from this film include every single character eventually " breaking down " to the investigators without much reason given , a ridiculously placed background relationship between two of the lead characters , as much action as my grandparents bedroom nightly , and a directorial style that can only reward director simon west with a solid nomination for the " best poor man's michael bay doing his best poor man's impression of tony scott " ( add two scenes with sunlight shining through some half-open shades for grit and integrity , and an all-out rainfall for the finale for further chaos , and you're a great director . 
yawn . 
yeah , whatever tony . . . i 
mean , simon . ) 
and aren't we all sick of hearing about these army " bad boys " and their overdone " code of silence " ? ! 
enough already ! 
next subject , please . 
see it on video if you wanna fall asleep after seeing a much better movie like an officer and a gentleman ( 8 . 5/10 ) . 
otherwise , save yourself the trouble and go take a crap instead . 
you'll feel much better afterwards . 
trust me . 
little known facts about this film and its stars : ironically , john travolta turned down the lead role in an officer and a gentleman , which eventually went to little dickie gere . 
ironically on james woods' part , he completed one of his earliest acting roles on tv's " welcome back , kotter " , starring none other than john travolta . 
actor james woods recently confirmed reports of his " big dick " on howard stern's radio program . 
unlike rocker tommy lee , woods is also alleged to have an iq of 180 . 
he apparently scored a perfect 800 on his verbal sats and a 779 on the math section . 
what a man ! 
john travolta is married to actress kelly preston , and they have a son named jett ( travolta loves them planes ! ) . 
word on the street is that the kid was apparently conceived during a weekend at demi moore and bruce willis' home . 
director simon west's first film was the jerry bruckheimer produced con air ( 6 . 5/10 ) . 
before that , he directed tv commercials including the budweiser ad with the dancing ants . 
yippee ! 
veteran director john frankenheimer ( ronin ( 7 . 5/10 ) , 
the manchurian candidate ) portrays the character of general sonnenberg in this film . 
the imdb reports that when senator robert kennedy was shot at the ambassador hotel in los angeles on june 5 , 1968 , it was his good friend john frankenheimer who had personally driven him there that day . 
clarence williams iii , who plays colonel fowler in this film , is known to some from his role as " linc " in the original " mod squad " tv series . 
younger folk may remember him as prince's father in purple rain . 
who knew that in 16 years eddie murphy , who made such a brash , raucous big-screen splash in _48_hrs . _ , 
would become . . . 
cuddly . 
the disconcerting trend begun in this summer's cutesy , largely laugh-free _doctor_dolittle_ continues with this earnest-to-a-fault dramedy . 
although he is top-billed , here murphy is merely support for jeff goldblum , who plays ricky hayman , the programming director at a home shopping network . 
sales are way down , and ricky's job hangs by a thread until he meets g ( murphy ) , a mysterious spiritual guru whom a desperate ricky puts on the air . 
while sales skyrocket and g becomes an overnight sensation , the reinvigorated ricky's greed grows , endangering his budding romance with a goodhearted media research consultant ( kelly preston ) . 
writer tom schulman has some promising ideas , satirizing home shopping and infomercials and the nature of instant celebrity . 
but these ideas would have more bite if stephen herek had invested any energy into the direction of the film . 
the sluggishly paced _holy_man_ is not only slow and overlong ( 113 minutes ) , but an unfunny bore , and murphy can do little to juice up the proceedings ; cleansed of both the attitude _and_ comic sensibility that made him a star ( g is , for the most part , a straight man ) , he is a curiously lifeless presence . 
goldblum is actually quite good , but it's hard for the audience to sustain much interest in his character and spiritual journey when the director doesn't seem to be much interested , either . 
 " pokemon 3 : the movie " has a lot of bad things in it . 
first of all it's a plot heavy mess that has bad voice talents , badly written script and fantastic animation . 
the first film came out the end of 1999 and was a huge hit grossing almost $90 million domestically . 
a sequel soon followed and even made $45 million . 
warner has released their third movie based on the immensely popular video game and tv series and its a waste of time and celluloid . 
this time ash ketchum and his friends are on their way to the johto battles ( which my little brother told me the new spinoff is " pokemon : the johto journeys " so go figure ) anyway he comes in contact with a young girl who's father has disappeared after trying to discover the unown . 
they are small pokemon with a powerful punch and have great psychic abilities . 
the unown bring together their psychic abilities and create entei a powerful legendary pokemon who barriers young molly's house and creates every wish she wants . 
now it's up to ash and his friends to stop this pokemon entei and show him to be a good pokemon rather than a bad one . 
too bad really that this is a bad movie , surprisingly the first movie was entertaining and somewhat absorbing , the second was a piece of trash and this one is almost in between . 
it has some good qualities ( animation , message in the end ) but the flaws seem to overpower the goods . 
i'm still not sure what the big thing is about pokemon , they are ugly little animals who speak their own name for their language ( besides meowth , my personal favorite ) and you don't understand what they are saying . 
my little brother just thought the movie was amazing , and i kept leaning over and asking him happened , or what pokemon that was . 
his response was a big lecture of how this is that , and that is this . . . he 
sure did put me in my place . 
with the second and third movie being bad , i have a feeling pokemon 4 : the movie might be a total bust as well . 
 " pokemon 3 : the movie " has some redeeming qualities for the kids , and the pokemon fans will dig every minute of this film . 
for those parents and/or brothers and sisters who have to sit through this . . . bring a pillow . 
1 . he doesn't have a hard-to-decipher accent , 2 . he doesn't always speak in a monotone , and 3 . 
his face doesn't always wear the same impassive expression . 
in short , the former nfl player turned fox sportscaster turned actor is too good to be bad , but too bad to be good . 
unfortunately , the same cannot be said of his first star vehicle , firestorm , which is just plain awful . 
one of the most glaring problems with long ( who made his acting debut in john woo's broken arrow ) is that he's so mediocre that he often blends in with the scenery . 
as ace firefighter jesse graves , long is supposed to be playing a bigger-than-life action hero -- the kind of he- man who will crash through a flaming door to save a child or parachute into a burning clearing to rescue some stupid campers . 
unfortunately , despite the best efforts of first-time director dean semler to photograph long using heroic shots that make kevin costner's work in the postman look stark , jesse turns out to be a pretty boring good guy . 
to put it kindly , this is not a well-written motion picture . 
firestorm is a collection of howlingly bad lines set against a backdrop of disaster movie clich ? s which , taken together , form something that requires a level of viewer inebriation to be recognized as a plot . 
the only reason this film is getting one star ( instead of something lower ) is that most of the fire sequences are realistic , and i was fascinated by the meticulous planning that must have been necessary to stage them effectively . 
we're introduced to our big burly hero one afternoon when he and some colleagues jump into the midst of a forest fire to save a group of people . 
during this sequence , our big burly hero proves that he's also a sensitive guy by risking his life to save a little girl and her dog ( yes , the dog lives ) from being broiled alive . 
flash-forward a year . 
now , our big burly hero is taking over as chief of his smokejumpers association , replacing outgoing honcho wynt perkins ( real actor scott glenn ) . 
but this day , our big burly hero's first in charge , isn't going to be business-as-usual . 
a group of nasty escaped criminals have set a wyoming forest alight to aid their flight to freedom . 
led by randy earl shaye ( william forsythe ) , the sadistic creep who must be killed twice to really die , they pose as canadian firefighters who somehow got lost across the border . 
along the way , they meet and take hostage the damsel in distress ( suzy amis ) . 
eventually , our big burly hero is placed in a position where he has to fight the fire , rescue the damsel in distress , defeat the sadistic creep who must be killed twice to really die , and restore order to the galaxy . 
firestorm's director , dean semler , is a former cinematographer ( he won an academy award for his work on dances with wolves ) , so it's no surprise that the film looks good . 
unfortunately , that's firestorm's lone asset , and it falters near the end , when computer-generated special effects fill up the screen . 
these are of about equal quality to what you might observe on a nintendo 64 video game . 
the action sequences , which include a variety of chases , are occasionally interesting , but never invigorating . 
everyone , including long , appears to be going through the motions . 
there isn't a memorable performance to be found from beginning to end , unless you count the forest fire , which generates some heat . 
as the sadistic creep who must be killed twice to really die , william forsythe lacks panache . 
he's worse than a generic bad guy ; he's a boring generic bad guy who doesn't have any snappy one-liners to hurl at our big burly hero . 
my advice to scott glenn ( absolute power ) and suzy amis ( titanic ) is to accidentally forget this film the next time they're making out a resume . 
there's some small comfort in knowing this early in the year that i already have one entry for my bottom 10 list . 
 ( at least i hope there aren't 10 worse films than this . ) 
and i know i wasn't the only one who really disliked this movie . 
as the audience was filing out of the screening , i loitered in the theater lobby to catch a few comments . 
the general consensus seemed to be that , although the movie sucked , the promotional key ring was cool . 
the problem is that fox won't be giving out key rings to regular movie-goers , so that nixes any reason to see firestorm . 
seen at : amc old pasadena 8 , pasadena , ca ( in sdds ) 
paul verhoeven's last movie , showgirls , had a bad script , bad acting , and a " plot " ( i use the word in its loosest possible sense ) that served only to allow lots of sex and nudity . 
it stank . 
starship troopers has a bad script , bad acting , and a " plot " that serves only to allow lots of violence and gore . 
it stinks . 
nobody will watch this movie for the plot , but here's a brief synopsis anyway . 
some friends straight out of high school sign up for the federal reserve ( armed forces ) at a time when evil bugs from the planet klendathu are sending meteors towards earth from the other side of the galaxy . 
after one slips through the defences and destroys buenos aires ( the home city of the main characters ) , war is declared . 
this involves sending the grunts , who include johnny rico ( van dien ) and dizzy ( meyer ) , down to the surface of the bugs' planet . 
much carnage ensues . 
the troops are withdrawn and sent to another planet to answer a distress call . 
more carnage ensues . 
after being rescued , their plans are changed to capture a " brain bug " which is believed to be controlling the aliens' battle plans ( look , i didn't write this , ok ? ) . 
yet more carnage ensues . 
get the picture ? 
interspersed throughout all this are brief " ads " from the federal network , which present the picture of a neo-fascist state , much like in verhoeven's robocop . 
there are many problems with starship troopers . 
the plot , where one exists to drive the movie onwards , is silly . 
harris ( star of tv's doogie howser , md ) is presented with a psychic ability to talk to his ferret early on in the movie , apparently so we will accept his ability to mind-meld with a " brain bug " later on . 
in addition , the first thirty minutes of the movie ( until the characters sign up for service ) drag on like a bad episode of beverly hills , 90210 . 
the characters are one-dimensional , so much so , that when dizzy is killed , she says it's ok because she got to sleep with rico . 
i had hoped that verhoeven's use of a no-name cast would allow him to kill off several of the lead characters to surprise the audience , but such an idea appears to have escaped him . 
the dialogue is embarassing and isn't helped by the frequently terrible delivery ( i almost burst out laughing when harris delivered his speech about the need to sacrifice a few hundred people for the good of the species ) . 
finally , the fake " ads " become a nuisance . 
although they evoke the propaganda of the wwii-era movietone reels ( as presumably they are meant to ) , their complete lack of subtlety blunts their effect . 
some people will say all of that's irrelevant -- the movie hinges on the battle scenes . 
so what about those battle scenes ? 
well , i admit the effects are good -- the bugs move about quite convincingly , especially when they have been deprived of a few of their limbs . 
and people have their brains blown out , their limbs cut off , and their bodies ripped in two in quite impressive ways . 
but this is my problem . 
the entertainment value of the film rests almost entirely on its graphic portrayal of gore , and its continous attempt to gross us out ( starting early on when richards' character vomits on-screen ) . 
verhoeven appears to be trying to make a movie employing the elements that made a robocop a success , but fails spectacularly . 
while robocop had a message about the importance of being human , and gave the bad guys some motivation , starship troopers lacks even these simple features . 
when the brain bug sucks out a character's brain near the end of the film , it's merely an analogy for what the film has done to us . 
this film is full of graphic violence and is not suitable for children under 16 . 
often similar to a little boy lost in a park that he had no right venturing into , the call of the oboe ( o toque do oboe ) is a disappointing film that seems to have wandered astray . 
many elements of the film are solid , and have potential far greater than director claudio macdowell will ever know , but they simply don't convert into a solid work . 
although a setting is never established , it becomes apparent . 
the film takes place somewhere in a latin american village in present day . 
the community is a dull one , where every day is a downhill slide from the last . 
over time , the people have taken to themselves . 
the town cinema is closed , no tourist has passed through in years , and the daily funeral processions are accompanied by no one other than the grave digger . 
so what happens when a " tourist " ( paolo betti ) does arrive one day ? 
he sends this routine and dull town into mayhem and shock . 
it is revealed that he is a musician who plays the oboe as a hobby . 
when he sits down in the park one day to give a solo performance , the entire community gathers around for their first bit of entertainment in countless years . 
it is from that that the musician meets some of the villagers , and agrees to play at the local cinema in accompaniment to a silent film , thus opening the theatre for the first time in ages . 
the woman that talks him into this witty task is the cinema owner ( leticia vota ) who also happens to be engaged to the town's police inspector , a figure who soon becomes suspicious of his fiance's involvement with this musician . 
the rest of the plot closely resembles a freak show gone horribly astray . 
it features a character who literally rises from his grave , a woman who has a phone conversation with god , and the aforementioned inspector who goes from an intriguing and serious character , to an almost humorous drunk . 
technically , this film is a nightmare . 
the music score is poorly edited into the film , so it is often choppy , rough , and abrupt . 
the lighting is poor at best , which makes it increasingly difficult to focus on many scenes , and the english subtitles are full of misspelled words , and are often absent presumably on the assumption that the audience will be able to understand some simple portuguese and spanish phrases . 
this translation flaw is best highlighted at the beginning of the film when what seems to be a relevant fight is filled with dialogue , but the subtitles are limited to fewer than 25 words . 
in addition , the pace of the film seems uneven . 
it opens with a series of long panoramic shots that alone can test one's patience . 
the film then moves into a faster pace , that again slows towards the end , as the director seems determined to reach the two hour mark . 
there was , however , potential for this film . 
it is a piece exploring the beauty of cinema and music , and the re-unification of people . 
these are all topics that could easily fill a movie . 
perhaps , if there were no freak show , and the technical aspects were to improve , there might just be a thing of beauty at the end . 
most importantly , though , the director would have to patch up the plot and make it flow better so that the two hours aren't such a bore . 
until then , there seems to be little more hope for this piece , than that boy has by simply crying out " mommy " while he wanders astray in a park . 
a friend invites you to a movie . 
this film would evade the explosions and special effects of standard summer fare , and be grounded in reality . 
the plot is as follows : after a terrifying incident , a mother and her independent daughter separate from the father and move away from the city . 
they need fresh air to get some perspective , maybe to start over . 
romance begins to brew , however , as one of the locals , played by an international superstar in rugged clothing , sparks things up , ( especially at a country-western slow dance ) . 
it stars a rising young starlet , helms a good cast , and is directed by one of the better actor-turned-directors in hollywood . 
you accept . 
you jump at the opportunity to see , what you believe to be , _the horse whisperer_ . 
but , poor moviegoer , you have been conned . 
alas , you find yourself watching , incredulously , _hope floats_ . 
oh , woe . 
your hope has sunk . 
why was this movie made ? 
why was it released ? 
it is a travesty on nearly every level , and has the authority to sink the careers of nearly everyone involved . 
at the hands of a better script , the film could have been a gem . 
but it is clueless as to what it is about , and only succeeds in transferring same cluelessness to us poor viewers . 
_hope floats_ stars sandra bullock as birdy , who , after discovering her husband has been cheating on her with her best friend ( on national television no less ) , takes her daughter and drives back to her home , helmed by a countryish bumpkin eccentric played by gena rowlands , ( she decorates with stuffed wildlife ) . 
birdy's nephew , travis ( played by _leave it to beaver_'s cameron finley ) , is under her custody , and in one of the film's many failed in-jokes , is always seen wearing a different halloween costume . 
what is the point of this ? 
does it make any sense ? 
is it supposed to be funny ? 
the point of the film is to show that the family is eccentric , but i was convinced that the grandma should have been locked up for endangering the mental welfare of a child . 
all of this undercuts the plot , of which there is none . 
there are only many scenes that are supposed to register emotion . 
there's the scene where birdy , who used to be the prom queen , is humbled by approaching a peer she once mocked , for a job . 
there's the scene where birdy dances with her father , in the hospital for alzheimer's . 
and then there's the sentimental scenes with justin , played by harry connick jr . , who is taking a liking to her again , showing her a beautiful pad that he built from scratch . 
and during each of these scenes , i was sidetracked by my earlier question . 
what sort of eccentric grandmother go through such great pains as to provide a dog costume , a kermit costume , a cowboy costume ( with whip ) , and a full furred barney costume for her grandson to wear during dinner ? 
what sort of warped ramifications would this lead for the rest of his life ? 
outside of this , there are other sure signs of screenwriters block . 
when the daughter stands up to the bully at school . 
when birdy almost loses her job . 
when the family pulls in a goofy lip-synch to cheer someone up . 
when someone dies . 
when the daughter cries , ( no , wails ) in exasperation that her father is not coming back . 
in a movie like this , you notice the strings being pushed , and you sit there , comatose , hoping it will end . 
who can survive such a debacle ? 
i worry for bullock's career , which has been running on auto-pilot for the last few years . 
she has an attitude , a solid perkiness , and can drive a bus--but she can't handle the emotional scenes , much less hold a southern accent . 
harry connick , jr . is worse--stick with singing , or get some acting lessons , please ! 
gena rowlands is the best part of the film . 
but she's such a good actress , that it staggers the mind that she's weighed down by such lukewarm material here . 
it would be a severe tragedy if the recurring star of john cassavettes' great films is known for this film . 
two notes to forest whittaker : ( 1 ) cut the slow-motion sequences . 
there are twelve times where you undercut your own direction by such a failed trick . 
have you done so , you could have shaved off ten-minutes of this almost unbearable debacle . 
 ( 2 ) you've had to know something was wrong if your cinematographer's filter makes the candlelight appear like little " x " s . 
you're not a bad director , but you can't change a terrible script . 
there's a recurring scene where birdy , working at the neighborhood fotomat , finds the machine go wrong , and image after destroyed , warped , dark image appear . 
think about it . 
a succession of destroyed images may have been more entertaining than this movie . 
any remake of an alfred hitchcock film is at best an uncertain project , as a perfect murder illustrates . 
frankly , dial m for murder is not one of the master director's greatest efforts , so there is ample room for improvement . 
unfortunately , instead of updating the script , ironing out some of the faults , and speeding up the pace a little , a perfect murder has inexplicably managed to eliminate almost everything that was worthwhile about dial m for murder , leaving behind the nearly- unwatchable wreckage of a would-be '90s thriller . 
almost all suspense films are loaded with plot implausibilities . 
the best thrillers keep viewers involved enough in what's going on so that these flaws in logic don't become apparent until long after the final credits have rolled . 
unfortunately , in a perfect murder , the faults are often so overt that we become aware of them as they're happening . 
this is a very bad sign . 
not only do such occurrences shatter any suspension of disbelief , but they have the astute viewer looking for the next such blunder . 
of course , in the case of a perfect murder , at least that gives an audience member something to do besides concentrating on the inane plot and the lifeless , cardboard characters . 
a perfect murder isn't a strict remake of dial m for murder , but it does borrow heavily from frederick knott's play ( which was also the source material for hitchcock's version , as well as a 1981 made-for-tv retelling ) . 
emily hayes ( gwyneth paltrow ) is the wealthy wife of powerful wall street mover-and-shaker steven hayes ( michael douglas ) . 
their marriage isn't going well -- emily resents steven's controlling instincts , and , as a form of rebellion , she is having an affair with a penniless painter , david shaw ( viggo mortensen ) . 
when steven learns of the relationship , he decides to confront david , but his approach isn't that of a typical cuckolded husband . 
instead of yelling or threatening , steven offers david a proposal that's too good to resist : for $500 , 000 in cash ( $100 , 000 before , the rest after ) , he is to break into steven's new york apartment and kill emily . 
 ( of course , after getting the first payment , david never bothers to ask how he's supposed to get the rest . ) 
ultimately , i'm not sure which of the three main characters we're supposed to be sympathetic to : the cold-hearted husband , who wants his wife dead so he can get his hands on her fortune ; her mercenary lover , who is willing to do the deed for half-a-million ; or the woman , who is happily carrying on an extramarital affair . 
not only are these individuals all profoundly dislikable , but they're not interesting . 
 ( it's possible to make a good movie with detestable characters -- see reservoir dogs -- but there has to be something compelling about them , which , in this case , there isn't . ) 
steven , emily , and david are all lifted directly from the screenwriting 101 text book on stereotypes . 
the actors in this film are obviously just on hand to get their paychecks . 
michael douglas is playing the kind of heartless tycoon that he can do in his sleep -- he's gordon gekko with an unfaithful wife . 
gwyneth paltrow , who was recently delightful and appealing in sliding doors , is simply awful here . 
she now has the dubious distinction of have starred in two of 1998's worst thrillers ( the other being hush ) . 
at least viggo mortensen ( g . i . 
jane ) has a little fun with his part , but then he usually does interesting things even in bad movies . 
the thin supporting cast includes david suchet , the star of " poirot , " as a police inspector , and sarita choudhury ( kama sutra ) as emily's best friend . 
a perfect murder is a plodding production that generates almost no suspense from beginning to end . 
there aren't many twists and turns in the unexpectedly linear script , which makes the ending inevitable almost from the start . 
it's surprising to see director andrew davis , the man behind the fugitive , involved in this mess , but , like his stars , he too needs to earn a living . 
it's just that remaking hitchcock , and doing it so badly , hardly seems to be an honorable way to go about getting the dough . 
steve martin shines but sgt . bilko 
fails to impress 
based on the popular 50's sitcom , sgt . 
bilko follows the string of old-sitcoms-to-movie conversion fever . 
remember the brady bunch movie or the beverly hillbillies released sometime back ? 
 ( brady bunch was a moderate hit in in the us while hillbillies flopped ) . 
i do not really know whether the hollywood minds are running out of good ideas or just being plain lazy , but the tv-conversion-movies are hitting our screens like wildfire , sad to say , with mixed success . 
such movies are mostly targeted at us viewers since they are usually followings of such series over there and the larger the following , the more likely the sitcom will be made into a movie . 
sgt . 
bilko ( frankly , i have not seen any its original tv version ) , even with the charm and wild antics of funnymen steve martin and dan akroyd ; failed to entertain . 
sgt . ernest bilko is the man behind the motor pool ( place of vehicle storage and repair ) of fort baxter . 
though totally unskilled in the field of work that he is supposed to be in charge of , he has an almost superhuman ability and zeal to sniff out money-making opportunities ; from running a gambling den in the military garage to 4-d pools . 
though materialistic in mind , bilko's methods has thoughtfully `enriched' the lives of the men of fort baxter , providing them with some form of real recreation within the camp and the people love him for that . 
colonel hall runs the entire fort and thanks to his inborn `blissfully-confused' state , bilko has managed to hide his operation , though nearly every living person in the fort knows about it . 
bilko's state of ascent is suddenly under-fire when the pentagon sends major thorn , a tough cookie on army regulations , to check on the progress on the $70 million hovertank project , a new weapon under development within the fort's grounds . 
to add to his problems , thorn is determined to bring bilko down in retalliation of a major `sabo' done on him by bilko during their younger army days . 
director jonathan lynn , who directed my cousin vinny ( in which marisa tomei won an oscar for best-supporting actress ) managed to pull sgt . 
bilko through with suitable pacing and some exceptional moments of laughter , but that is about it . 
there are really not enough laughter-packed-moments in sgt . 
bilko to fully entertain the average movie-goer . 
still , steve martin's sgt . 
bilko is played with finesse and full-force by the renowned comedian . 
without him , sgt . 
bilko would have just fell flat on its face . 
sgt . 
bilko did moderately well in the us box office early this year but i doubt it will earn much elsewhere around the world . 
the current trend in mixed successes in such tv-conversions may be a blessing in disguise , really ; at least it will force hollywood to re-think any of its initial intentions to turn another tv-idea into a movie or at the very least approach those ideas with more creativity . 
unless you are a fan of the tv-series or love to watch steve martin in action , you can skip this one when deciding which movie to catch in the local theatres . 
i'm sure there are better ones around . 
look ! the new version of " psycho " came out and the world didn't end ! 
i guess gus van sant really isn't the bringer of the apocalypse ! 
unfortunately , though , that " psycho " didn't end the world as we know is the best thing that can be said for it . 
van sant's controversial " re-telling " of alfred hitchcock's classic 1960 film has polarized filmgoers everywhere ( even before it premiered . ) 
without benefit of an actual viewing , many have said that the film will , at best , suck . 
being an ( almost ) good critic , i waited until i actually saw it to decide that the film , at best , sucked ( and that concludes the use of the word " suck " and , hopefully , the thoughts that i am a brain-dead orangutan . ) 
director gus van sant took the original hitchcock film and refilmed it , shot-for-shot , using the same , exact script ( with a few minor alterations . ) 
the inherent challenge was in making the film suspenseful and scary , even though a large group of the audience will know exactly what will happen at the exact time . 
suspense probably could have been attained if the actors had been able to create something new or different than the original . 
sadly , that did not occur . 
it is hard to be overshadowed by vera miles and john gavin ( from the original " psycho ) , but that is what exactly happened to julianne moore and viggo mortensen . 
in moore's case , the film would have been helped if " the x- files " gillian anderson had been cast instead ; especially since moore goes through the entire film doing a scully impression ! 
from the cold demeanor and expressions to her rigid way of forming a sentence , moore is scully ! 
mortensen ( who i liked in " g . i . 
jane " ) opts to play sam loomis as a cowboy/hick , which would have been nice if he had gone past that starting point . 
sam has a twang and a cowboy hat , but that's about it . 
mortensen turns in one of the most uptight performance in recent memory . 
anne heche , in the janet leigh role , does a few good things in her brief time on screen . 
at least her marion crane has a little life in her , which can't be said for most of the rest of the cast . 
the best work , though , comes from vince vaughn , as the demented mama's boy , norman bates . 
he's not going to make anyone forget anthony perkins , but he is effective both in being naughty and nice . 
the best part of the film is the dinner scene heche and vaughn , where they simply talk . 
there is some solid acting there , something that is not carried through the rest of the film . 
van sant has made a boring film . 
all the camera tricks that hitchcock so eloquently used in 1960 aren't as eye-catching now . 
what passed for brilliance then has been copied so many times by so many directors that they don't impress or excite . 
van sant , in what i assume is a grasp at originality , decided to put some stream-of-consciousness images into a few famous scenes ( was that a lamb in the middle of the road ? ) 
these images , included with some questionable editing choices , took away from the scenes themselves and caused , at first , bewilderment and , later , laughter . 
definitely not hitchcock's intention ! 
at least danny elfman had the good sense to not mess with bernard herrmann's original famous and terrific score . 
if a film like " psycho " does not frighten , then what's the point . 
aside from norman , the characters are thinly drawn people who leave no connection with the audience . 
there are things van sant and company could have done to at least make their recreation interesting . 
in the end , however , the new " psycho " is a noble attempt , but , alas , a dismal failure . 
an american werewolf in london is john landis' groundbreaking feature about an american tourist who gets himself bitten by a werewolf in jolly old england . 
the groundbreaking part of the movie is the special effects . 
more specifically , the makeup used for the transformation of a man into a werewolf ; and for the ghosts that haunt the main character . 
even twenty years after its release , that part of the movie is still impressive . 
although , i would have to say that it really is the only part of the movie that could be considered impressive . 
the rest of the movie is a run of the mill werewolf flick with some extra gore thrown in for good measure . 
if it weren't for the cutting edge makeup effects used in the werewolf transformation it is most likely that this is a film that would have gone largely unnoticed when it was released back in 1980 . 
and with good reason -- the acting isn't great and neither is the writing . 
well ok , we don't actually expect either of those things to be great in a horror film . 
but one other important element is lacking here too -- it isn't scary . 
with no exception , you know what is going to happen before it happens . 
you don't even need the obligatory scary music to give you a hint . 
i will give director john landis credit for this being one of the best looking horror films that i have ever seen . 
but john , it just wasn't scary . 
i didn't know if this was intended to be some sort of romantic drama and the whole werewolf thing was just thrown in to get people to come to the theater to see it , but it didn't work for me . 
actually , it was intended as a sort of a spoof on horror films . 
but the mix of the comedic moments with the melodrama was so bad ; the intended humor was lost on me . 
it's never a good sign that you don't realize a movie is supposed to be funny until after the movie is long over and you read it in the background material . 
call me crazy , but you shouldn't have to do research on a movie to enjoy it . 
i'm not even going to get into the plot of the movie that much , since the title pretty well sums the whole thing up . 
werewolf bites boy ( david naughton ) . 
boy ends up in hospital where he is tended to and eventually falls for pretty nurse ( jenny agutter ) and then strange things begin to happen to boy . 
including , and i must admit this is a very nice touch , visits from his friend who was killed in the same werewolf attack that ended up with him in the hospital . 
the neat thing here is that his buddy is a rapidly deteriorating corpse . 
i know it sounds strange , but it actually works . 
the scenes between david naughton and the dead buddy ( griffin dunne ) are really the best parts of the movie . 
as i said , probably the only reason that this film was a hit was because of the special effects . 
while they are still impressive today , they aren't impressive enough , or plentiful enough to warrant watching this film . 
and since they are more or less the highlight of the film , there are far better choices out there if you want a scary movie to curl up with your sweetheart to watch . 
actually , the 1998 sequel , an american werewolf in paris , is more entertaining since it doesn't take itself as seriously and actually provides a few more laughs along the way . 
capsule : annoyingly unentertaining , obvious and paper-thin buddy/cop/drug/sexy-witness movie . 
presence of director michael bay shows none of the talent he demonstrated in the rock . 
i've seen this movie already , i said , as i looked at the box art . 
no , i haven't even seen a trailer for the movie ; i don't even know what it's about , but i can look at the way they're promoting it , and i know i've seen it already . 
i thought : it's about these two cops . 
and they're buddies , sort of . 
they're at each other's throats a lot , but they really do like each other . 
and everyone else in their department hates them 'cause they're hot-shots . 
and they have some kind of diametric opposition in their relationship . 
and one day they're in the middle of cop business as usual when they get mixed up in this plot that involves a really sadistic bad guy with lots of henchmen who can never hit anything with the billions of rounds of ammo they are always carrying . 
and the bad guy is a drug lord . 
and there's a witness , and she's this sexy thing who rubs both of them the wrong way . 
and their supervisor wants their badges for breakfast when they blow up half the town bringing this guy down . 
i only missed the bit about the badges . 
the rest i got dead-on . 
and i hadn't even left the video store yet . 
the cops in this movie are will smith and martin lawrence , and the bad guy is the immensely underutilized tcheky karyo . 
smith plays a cop who has a trust fund and is thus not a cop for the money ; martin l . is a family man ( shades of the now-tired lethal weapon dynamic here ) whose wife and he are at total odds . 
this leads to some strained scenes about lawrence's " not getting any " , and some totally unneccesary bits with him skulking around his own house , thinking his partner is now his wife's " back door man " . 
not funny ; tiresome . 
bad boys gets some of its incredibly meager selling points from the presence of will smith and martin lawrence . 
will smith is a natural , and i'm happy to see him in movies like six degrees . . . 
and men in black . 
he's funny and charming without trying to be ; he really does seem to be enjoying himself . 
martin lawrence is a different story ; he's so uptight and verbally constipated that sitting through his improvised riffs are a trial . 
movies like this are not about originality . 
i know this . 
they are about style and energy and synergy between actors . 
i know this , too . 
and yet , while watching bad boys , which its glamorous photography and impossibly exact stunt choreography , i felt fed up . 
i'd seen con air , which despite being completely implausible , was still great fun , because it tried however feebly to put some new life into the mix . 
bad boys is a dry run -- and overlong , too , clocking in at just over two hours with a lot more by-play than i felt could be justified . 
i could write this movie . 
you could write this movie . 
many people have . 
many people will continue to write this movie , over and over again . 
other people will buy it from them , and make it , and we will pay money to see it . 
more the fools we all . 
in a terrifyingly prescient line from his book a scanner darkly , phil k . dick once mused that the mcdonaldburger ( as he called it ) would eventually eclipse money as the token of cultural and financial exchange . 
one day we will all just sit in our living rooms and sell the same burger back and forth to each other . 
the same could be said about this movie . 
i have the sinking feeling we're going to see it again . 
soon . 
in the first death wish movie , mild-mannered new york architect paul kersey , played by charles bronson , was avenging the death of his wife . 
in the second , he was avenging his daughter . 
in the third , he instigated small war in order to avenge the old friend . 
fourth movie , on the other hand , begins with kersey doubting the point of his violent crusades and living the quiet life with his girlfriend karen , played by kay lenz . 
however , since this is death wish movie , we know that sooner or later something bad is going to happen to the people kersey cares for . 
this time karen's teenage daughter dies of a crack overdose and kersey is forced to return to his old vigilante ways . 
kersey's new targets , unlike the previous movies , aren't the ordinary street punks but rich , heavily armed and well-connected drug dealers . 
even such unstoppable killing machine like kersey needs some support , and it comes from the publisher nathan white ( john p . ryan ) , determined to avenge the drug-related death of his own daughter . 
white's plan is to make kersey kill major players in two rival drug dealing organisations and thus instigate the war between them . 
the plan begins to take shape , but kersey's actions bring attention of two police detectives - reiner ( george dickerson ) and nozaki ( soon teck-oh ) . 
fourth ( and , unfortunately , not the final ) installment in the death wish series , will probably remembered as the typical movie of cannon group , production company responsible for some of the worst cinematic trash of the last decade . 
however , although some critics might argue , death wish 4 : the crackdown represents slight improvement over the death wish 3 . paul kersey , one of the most intriguing ( and potentially controversial ) characters of the 1970s , is still being dumbed down by mediocre script , and charles bronson really doesn't feel the need to put much effort in his acting . 
however , the hand of a veteran director j . lee thompson seems more capable of michael winner's and the action scenes seem slightly less surreal , although they still look cheap and repetitive and downright boring . 
there are some attempts for the movie to have a plot between the numerous scenes of violence , and one of such attempts is a potentially interesting plot twist at the end . 
the script even tries to fake some social conscience ( through criminally underused kay lenz's character ) and predates the war on drugs campaign that would inspire many hollywood products in next few years . 
there are even some half-hearted attempts of humour - both intentional and unintentional , like in a scene where kersey assassinates mob figures by a wine bottle - but the quality of this movie is still far away from bronson's 1970s classics . 
 ( special note to x-philes : mith pilleggi , the actor who plays ad skinner in the x- files , could be seen in a small role of cannery lab foreman ) . 
i've never written a review for a movie i haven't watched all the way through , but i had to make an exception with powder . 
i was about forty-five minutes into this one at a friend's house when he and his brother got into a huge shouting match that would have ended in violence had we not left the house . 
so i never got to finish the movie and i'm sure as hell not going to pay three more bucks to watch half of a bad movie . 
but i can at least get a partial review out of it , because i saw enough to know this one wasn't worth finishing in the first place . 
the movie centers around a freaky teenager who's spent his entire life living in the cellar of his grandparents' house . 
when grandpa dies ( taking his department store down with him ) , social worker mary steenburgen has to take powder ( first and middle names ? 
gold bond ) to a state home , where we find out he's a different from the other kids . 
actually , we find out he's different when we first see him , because he's the most pale individual we've ever seen and moreover he has no body hair whatsoever . 
when powder is born in the opening minutes of the movie , the father takes one look at him and says " he's not my son . " 
obviously . 
all i want to know is where the pillsbury dough boy was nine months ago . 
so the white-faced freak leaves his neverland ranch for the state home and faces the ridicule of other kids . 
that is , until they try to haze him during his first cafeteria lunch by making him " wear " his spoon ( " you can either wear it on your nose or up your ass . " 
decisions , decisions . . . ) and he uses telepathic powers to draw all the silverware in the room into a giant pile in the middle of the table . 
so if his father is the pillsbury dough boy , his mother must be sissy spacek's carrie character . 
and you have to factor in two more things from the subsequent scenes , as we find out powder has some sort of super-intelligence ( " your i . q . 
test went straight off the chart ! " ) 
and attracts electrical power . 
this first shows up as powder visits the world of high school ( if he's such a genius already , why would he need a high school education ? ) and sits through a demonstration in jeff goldblum's science class . 
goldblum plugs in a " jacob's ladder " device that shows current running up two wires and immediately the current flows across the room and into powder's chest . 
but goldblum just stands there for about thirty seconds watching , instead of just unplugging the damn thing . 
i guess he was too busy contemplating why he was appearing in his third bad movie in a row ( following hideaway and nine months ) . 
that's about all i saw before the big fight began and , let me tell you , that was twice as interesting as the movie itself . 
but like i said , i saw enough to know this would be one of those terrible melodramas about the isolation of people who have superior abilities and how hard it is for those people to assimilate themselves into mainstream civilization . 
none of these movies ever handle the subject properly , instead introducing the feeble beauty and the beast copout of having a beautiful woman fall in love with the guy's personality , overlooking his personal appearance . 
i already had the female character picked out ( the girl who was sitting next to him in the back of the room during the electrocution scene ) , but i guess i'll never know for sure what happened . 
from noraruth@aol . com 
mon jun 10 15 : 04 : 03 edt 1996 article : 3654 of rec . arts . movies . reviews 
path : nntphub . cb . att . com ! not-for-mail 
from : noraruth@aol . com 
 ( andrew hicks ) newsgroups : rec . arts . movies . reviews , rec . arts . sf . reviews 
subject : review : powder ( 1995 ) followup-to : rec . arts . movies . current-films , rec . arts . sf . movies 
date : 10 jun 1996 18 : 16 : 03 gmt organization : university of missouri - columbia lines : 70 sender : ecl@mtcts1 . att . com 
 ( evelyn c . leeper ) approved : ecl@mtcts1 . att . com 
message-id : " > reply-to : noraruth@aol . com 
 ( andrew hicks ) nntp-posting-host : mtcts2 . mt . lucent . com 
summary : r . a . m . r . 
#05425 keywords : author=hicks originator : ecl@mtcts2 xref : nntphub . cb . att . com 
rec . arts . movies . reviews : 3654 
rec . arts . sf . reviews : 710 
status : ro 
powder a film review by andrew hicks copyright 1996 andrew hicks / fatboy productions 
i've never written a review for a movie i haven't watched all the way through , but i had to make an exception with powder . 
i was about forty-five minutes into this one at a friend's house when he and his brother got into a huge shouting match that would have ended in violence had we not left the house . 
so i never got to finish the movie and i'm sure as hell not going to pay three more bucks to watch half of a bad movie . 
but i can at least get a partial review out of it , because i saw enough to know this one wasn't worth finishing in the first place . 
the movie centers around a freaky teenager who's spent his entire life living in the cellar of his grandparents' house . 
when grandpa dies ( taking his department store down with him ) , social worker mary steenburgen has to take powder ( first and middle names ? 
gold bond ) to a state home , where we find out he's a different from the other kids . 
actually , we find out he's different when we first see him , because he's the most pale individual we've ever seen and moreover he has no body hair whatsoever . 
when powder is born in the opening minutes of the movie , the father takes one look at him and says " he's not my son . " 
obviously . 
all i want to know is where the pillsbury dough boy was nine months ago . 
so the white-faced freak leaves his neverland ranch for the state home and faces the ridicule of other kids . 
that is , until they try to haze him during his first cafeteria lunch by making him " wear " his spoon ( " you can either wear it on your nose or up your ass . " 
decisions , decisions . . . ) and he uses telepathic powers to draw all the silverware in the room into a giant pile in the middle of the table . 
so if his father is the pillsbury dough boy , his mother must be sissy spacek's carrie character . 
and you have to factor in two more things from the subsequent scenes , as we find out powder has some sort of super-intelligence ( " your i . q . 
test went straight off the chart ! " ) 
and attracts electrical power . 
this first shows up as powder visits the world of high school ( if he's such a genius already , why would he need a high school education ? ) and sits through a demonstration in jeff goldblum's science class . 
goldblum plugs in a " jacob's ladder " device that shows current running up two wires and immediately the current flows across the room and into powder's chest . 
but goldblum just stands there for about thirty seconds watching , instead of just unplugging the damn thing . 
i guess he was too busy contemplating why he was appearing in his third bad movie in a row ( following hideaway and nine months ) . 
that's about all i saw before the big fight began and , let me tell you , that was twice as interesting as the movie itself . 
but like i said , i saw enough to know this would be one of those terrible melodramas about the isolation of people who have superior abilities and how hard it is for those people to assimilate themselves into mainstream civilization . 
none of these movies ever handle the subject properly , instead introducing the feeble beauty and the beast copout of having a beautiful woman fall in love with the guy's personality , overlooking his personal appearance . 
i already had the female character picked out ( the girl who was sitting next to him in the back of the room during the electrocution scene ) , but i guess i'll never know for sure what happened . 
this is the movie that could single-handedly bring " mystery science theater 3000 " out of cancellation . 
it's one of those movies that's so bad it's absolutely hilarious , due in no small part to its big star , supermodel cindy crawford . 
if you only remember one thing about fair game , it should be that it singlehandedly proves crawford should stick to the sports illustrated swimsuit issues . 
if you thought kathy ireland was laughable in alien from l . a . , you'll change your mind when you see fair game . 
ireland would win handfuls of oscars if this was her only competition . 
in a real casting coup , crawford plays a super-intelligent lawyer ( in a jogging bra , of course ) . 
we all know this is a stretch , the only legal opinion crawford has ever put forth being that she favors the death penalty for anyone who wears white after labor day . 
nonetheless , someone out there thought she'd make a good lawyer , but we're reminded of her true function in the movie when she takes two showers in a period of twenty minutes . 
and for you horny teenage boys out there , you actually get to see her topless for two seconds in the dark . . . 
come to think of it , that may have been a body double . 
cindy crawford isn't black , is she ? 
like i said , crawford is a lawyer with a bunch of russians after her . 
billy baldwin ( or is it stephen ? 
alec ? 
adam ? 
kim basinger ? ) is the police detective who has to save her life , time after time , chase after chase , explosion after explosion . 
there's absolutely nothing original about this movie . 
it's every cop show of the 70's mixed with every action thriller of the 80's and every technology- exploitation movie of the 90's . 
three decades of crap all in one place , driven further into the ground by crawford's complete lack of acting talent . 
and it's all completely predictable . 
you know the mistakes baldwin and crawford are going to make before they make them , you know when the " sexual tension " will finally end up in them consummating the relationship , you know when the villains will capture crawford so baldwin has to rescue her in the climax and you know the movie's going to suck from the first scene . 
the plot isn't really explained until the end . 
all we know is these russians have every detail about crawford in their computer . 
in the words of one of the villains , " we even know what size pantyhose she wears . " 
 ( yeah , you and every 14-year-old boy in america . ) 
he goes on to add , " we know more about her than she does . " 
 ( _that_ i find very easy to believe . ) 
i hope you enjoyed those two sample dialogue quotes , because i wrote down plenty of other bad ones ( " if it weren't for me , you'd still be pulling bananas out of your ass in cuba ! " ) 
because , you see , fair game is not only a showcase for recycled action cliches and terrible acting , but also some seriously bad dialogue . 
it all adds up to a really terrible movie that made me laugh in plenty of places i wasn't supposed to and grimace in places i was supposed to laugh . 
one more thing fair game has against it is some awful comic relief . 
would you laugh at a scene where crawford tortures a computer nerd with double entendres like " i'm very interested in _hard_ware " and other crap about playing with his joystick ? 
i wouldn't , but not because i'm a computer nerd . 
it's just not funny . 
crawford's only contribution to the information age are a few gif files floating around with her head on a nude traci lords' body . . . 
or was it jack lord's body ? 
i'll leave you with the final line of dialogue in the movie . 
the boat with all the russians has just blown up and baldwin and crawford are floating on a life raft . 
crawford says woodenly , " that was my client's boat you just blew up . 
i'm filing a lawsuit against you . 
you're in big trouble , " or something to that effect , and baldwin replies smugly , " what do i have to do to get out of it ? " 
they of course begin making out and the credits roll . 
i'm not going to talk about how stupid the line is or how , if they'd really wanted to go for a bad closing line they would have had baldwin say , " you think i could settle out of court ? " 
but i will tell you that , if anyone ever suggests you watch fair game with him or her , you quote the final line of the movie to that person : " what do i have to do to get out of it ? " 
serving america for over 1/50th of a century ! 
attention moviegoers : you are about to enter a meaning-free zone . 
should the sound system malfunction during your viewing of 200 cigarettes , do not panic . 
the film will work just as well as a silent movie . 
chronicling the meaningless lives of vain , yuppie types , the movie covers the same ground as the wilt stillman films ( last days of disco , barcelona and metropolitan ) but without any of his acerbic wit and the inviting style of his writing . 
first-time writer shana larsen makes the mistake of creating a couple of dozen characters and not giving any of them any depth . 
there isn't one of these characters worth caring about . 
the movie features such a cornucopia of hot young stars that it looks like a celluloid version of " people magazine . " 
among others , the movie features : ben affleck , casey affleck , david chappelle , janeane garofalo , gaby hoffmann , catherine kellner , courtney love , jay mohr , martha plimpton , christina ricci and paul rudd . 
and unlike people magazine , the people speak , not that they have anything interesting to say . 
it's new year's eve in 1981 , and monica ( martha plimpton ) is preparing her big party . 
structured as a series of relatively unrelated stories about her guests on the way to the party , director risa bramon garcia flits back and forth among her stars . 
monica's apartment is in " noho , " an area that one of the guests describes as " so cool , all of the poor people live there . " 
typical of the shallow couples in the movie are kevin ( paul rudd ) and his friend and would-be sexual partner lucy ( courtney love ) . 
they argue about whether lucy is a slut or not since she sleeps with everyone , except him , of course . 
she dares him to go immediately to a bathroom stall and have sex with her , which turns out to be neither erotic , funny or successful -- rather like the rest of the story . 
the movie gets its title from the carton of cigarettes that lucy gives kevin for his new year's eve birthday . 
 " cigarettes are a shield against emotional interaction with other people , " kevin later tells lucy in a snippet of dialog that sounds profound only outside the context of the movie . 
another character , played by jay mohr , has a problem with his sexual triumphs . 
every woman he beds falls deeply in love with him by the next morning . 
when his latest conquest tells him of her affection for him , his response is " i like a lot of people . " 
as the movie finally draws to a close , the characters awaken from their post-party game of musical beds . 
some have passed out early from alcohol abuse and remember little , while others actually have some clue as to what happened . 
the movie itself is so forgettable that by the time you reach your car in the parking lot , all trace of the film will have vanished from your mind , which is probably the best thing that can be said about the movie . 
200 cigarettes runs 1 : 40 . 
it is rated r for profanity , sex and one dope smoking scene and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
i have nothing against unabashedly romantic films . 
when done right , with at least slightly evident restraint , they can be engaging , sweeping , appealing . 
but it's a hell of a shame when someone botches it as badly as nora ephron botched sleepless in seattle , a hollow , boring romance that should appeal only to the most gullible of viewers ; the ones willing to buy into ephron's whiny views of life and romance . 
tom hanks and meg ryan , two of hollywood's most likeable stars play sam baldwin and annie reed , repectively . 
baldwin's wife recently died and he moved to seattle with his son , jonah , seeking to get away from the familiar surroundings which remind him of his late spouse . 
jonah senses tension and calls a talk radio show to tell the world about their problems . 
sam seems ready to strangle his son for calling the show , but when he gets on the phone he begins pouring his heart out . 
ephron has him do this so that annie reed ( meg ryan ) can hear it . 
annie is a happy woman . 
she is engaged to walter , an allergy-prone working man and seems to be perfectly content . 
but after hearing sam the widower on the radio show , she becomes convinced that he is her destiny and is willing to risk her engagement for it . 
five years after this movie hit theaters , hanks , ryan and ephron would team up again in the far better , although still sub-par romantic comedy you've got mail , which is about people who hate each other in real life falling in love on the internet . 
at least that movie had a sense of spontaneity . 
here it seems that the first one hundred minutes exist solely to set up for the last five . 
the fact that sam and annie will finally meet is so excruciatingly obvious that everything else is perfunctory . 
sleepless in seattle is full of wonderful performers ; from its two leads to supporting stars like bill pullman and rosie o'donnell . 
but none of them can save the film from being a bore . 
its characters are dull and empty , its script isn't funny or particularly charming . 
the script has a fundamental problem : annie gives up , for little reason , her life with walter to pursue " sleepless in seattle , " whom she has never even seen . 
it's the kind of life decision that real people don't make , and its a major , unforgivable plausibility sacrifice . 
in essence , this movie's purpose is to head towards a goal that shouldn't even exist . 
it's a ten minute short film with ninety-five minutes of filler . 
if you were to show me sleepless in seattle and i didn't have to review it , you could just call me " asleep in philadelphia . " 
 ? 1999 eugene novikov&#137 ; 
if you've seen the trailers or commercials , it's rather difficult to really figure out what this movie has in store . 
well , it's hard to tell after watching the movie as well . 
bruce willis is a resident of the future , and it is a rather bleak future . 
the world's population had disintigrated into a mere 200 , 000 and is no longer ruled by humans but animals . 
the reason ? 
in 1995 , an organization called the army of the 12 monkeys contaminated the world with a pure virus , thus wiping out practically the world's population in a mere month . 
bruce willis' character is one of the surviving few , but is enslaved by scientists , as are most of last living humans . 
they barter his freedom by sending him on an assignment and having him do the ultimate task : go into the past , find the leader of the army of the 12 monkeys , and kill him . 
well , this explanation didn't come easy . 
although the movie is very thought provoking of us as a people , our future and the evilo in the world , as a story it is very confusing . 
and dragging . 
i know a movie isn''t keeping my interest when i fidget in my seat or feel the need to look at my watch only to find that it's only been an hour passed . 
terry gilliam has a certain style that i realize many appreciate , and i haven't watched his previous work brazil , but this movie felt like it took too long to tell and yet when one realizes the end is near because it is very easy to figure out , you wish it were more complex , and not to mention that the movie is depressing is the only reason why it did invoke emotion from me . 
house on haunted hill ( 1999 ) starring taye diggs , geoffrey rush , ali larter , famke janssen , peter gallagher , bridgette wilson , max perlich , lisa loeb , james marsters , and chris kattan . 
directed by william malone , written by dick beebe , 
 " house on haunted hill " initializes itself to the audience with a scene involving zombie-like mental patients attacking and murdering doctors in the goriest ways possible . 
one doctor is killed instantly after having a pencil rammed completely through his neck . 
a nurse has her head forced into a barrel of water . 
these mobs of zombies presented are like those in previous b-horror flicks , with grunting noises and cadaverous movements . 
except this time , at the end of the millenium , the film is given the power to show exactly how horrific these creatures can be . 
in past horror films , the actual murder scenes are left out or not shown forcing the viewer to assume their own nasty bloody deaths for the hapless victims . 
 " house on haunted hill " doesn't want their audience to have an imagination , everything is provided for them to watch and squirm , not think . 
this nonsense violence thrown out of nowhere is unfortunately the most refreshing part about this film . 
 " house on haunted hill " , which is based on the 1958 film of the same title , introduces a handful of characters as quickly as it can , following the opening blood fest . 
the film has no intention of providing character development or a laudable plot . 
the aim here is to scare the audience with chilling , unexpected shots of blood , guts , and mayhem . 
however , the film is neither scary nor unpredictable . 
the plot involves five people who are dared to spend the night in a haunted house for one million dollars by an amusement park owner ( geoffrey rush ) . 
each character is a failure in the external world and acknowledges that they would do anything for that money . 
since the characters are immediately generalized as either greedy or caring , the expectations of who will survive or not is killed five minutes after you meet them . 
the problem is that every character is not likable . 
the two who come closest to being civilized are a womanizer ( taye diggs - who should be doing films a lot better than this with all of his talent ) and a businesswoman who accepts being womanized ( ali larter ) . 
the characters presented are so annoying and pathetic , that it is hard to cheer for them or scream them . 
the worst character in this film , or maybe in any film released this year , is chris kattan's watson pritchett . 
he spends the whole film whining about the spooky house in a tone so irritating and inappropriate , that he unintentionally begins to seem more evil than the house itself . 
waiting for pritchett to die , was a strenuously difficult act to sit through . 
the most humorous actor of the bunch is geoffrey rush playing steven price ( an homage to victor price who starred in the original ) . 
playing the rich man who supposedly organized the party , he plays the role perfectly in a twisted way where it is obvious that he is up to something just by the expressions on his face . 
however , rush is pretty much wasted in a confusing subplot involving a hateful marriage with evelyn price , played by famke janssen . 
the main problem is that " house on haunted hill " is not scary . 
to top off that huge disappointment , every actor was wasted and the script was completely ludicrous . 
if the annoying characters and hilariously bad dialogue were intentionally underdeveloped ( similar to " deep blue sea " ) , the goal for creating a creepy , suspenseful action film was completely missed . 
fit for a ghoul's night out , fat girl stands cast iron firm with the simplistic , fatuous , built-in excuse that its woman director is baring the harsh sexual realities of adolescent girls . 
being a boy , i might not understand female behavior and am unequipped to analyze this particular pseudo-feminist coming-of-age story . 
fair enough . 
i'll pretend to ignore the mannered posturing and health class 101 " this is a no-no " dialogue when older teenage boy coaxes younger teenage girl to let him fuck her up the ass , speaking variations on " it won't hurt ! " 
for a scene that seems to last at least ten minutes . 
this is done almost entirely in an unbroken master shot that suggests unimaginative camerawork more than unblinking voyeurism . 
they dare you to look away , without possessing the courage of allowing the children to actually sound like children ( they're mouthpieces for writer-director catherine breillat's one-note clinical politics ) . 
rather than show an even-handed evaluation of the rigors of hormonal change , breillat ( previously responsible for the unwatchable romance ) wants to indulge in her hour of hate . 
life is pain , highness . 
get used to it . 
she'd find keen bedfellows in neil labute and todd solondz , other sultans of misanthropy who lack the balls to be earnest or honest . 
for children , dealing with trauma and pain is complicated . 
to bury that in sarcasm and academic theory feels cheap . 
these would-be auteurs ( more like hauteurs ) haven't earned the right to display suffering because they don't layer it in emotional truth ( as mike leigh does throughout naked and david lynch in several key scenes of blue velvet ) . 
of course , there i go again comparing her to all these ( better ) male directors . 
i don't care . 
gender be damned , she's borderline inept . 
braced for a knee-jerk reaction from the art house crowd ( mortified shock or compulsory applause will suffice ) , writer-director catherine breillat may well accomplish her mission to get a rise out of people . 
don't be fooled . 
this grotesque oversimplification of awkward forays into passion may be quickly forgotten , remembered only as cold , boring , philosophically arid , and incompetently photographed . 
the hyperviolent climactic sequence proves so extraordinarily misguided that i honestly wondered whether breillat had thrown in an impromptu dream sequence . 
twelve years old , a bundle of dough with a sour pout , the superb ana ? s reboux plays the titular fat girl with a thousand yard stare and a frumpy insouciance . 
 ( her character is also named ana ? s . ) 
sitting at the table morosely slurping down a banana split , her presence is grounded and heartbreaking . 
it's a pity breillat never finds anything for her to do other than get defensive against her evil storybook sister , 15-year old elena ( roxane mesquida ) , for bringing a transitory boyfriend home to their shared room . 
in this summer cottage , ana ? s has no escape from her position as stoic bedside observer to elena's depressing confusion of cheap sex with romance . 
the boy in question , a smug italian college kid named fernando ( libero de rienzo ) is a real piece of work , claiming that the experience is a declaration of love while begging for a blowjob . 
ana ? s doesn't receive any warmth from her largely absent parents , who join elena in making fun of her hefty girth . 
she finds pleasure in wandering the beach alone , singing songs to herself , and swimming in the pool kissing the metal railing and pretending that it's her paramour . 
reboux commands the screen , but there's only so much a child actress can do recounting pretentious monologues to herself . 
if one is inspired to rescue this young performer and place her in a better movie , at least she fares better than the other young talent asked to perform in intense love scenes that might feel justified if they weren't so dramatically misguided . 
this 83-minute vignette is something of a horror show , but breillat saves her nastiest poison for the very end . 
on the long ride home punctuated by an uncomfortable silence between family members , gigantic trucks swerve by as the hour grows late . 
will mommy fall asleep at the wheel ? 
perhaps . 
or maybe there's something deadlier around the corner , lying in wait to pounce upon the unsuspecting fat girl . 
what's more , she might even like it . 
with the intent of being unfair and unpredictable , placing her heroine in the most diabolical of corners in order to face up to impending adulthood , breillat's extreme flourish of sadistic tawdriness reveals her as a master purveyor of contempt . 
fat girl is a bitter pill indeed . 
aka ? ma soeur ! 
screened at the 2001 new york film festival ( feature coming soon ) . 
 " marie couldn't talk , " paulie , the parrot star of his own movie , tells us about the daughter in his original family . 
 " dad couldn't listen . 
and mom couldn't cope , so they got rid of me . " 
paulie , the autobiography of a talking , not merely a mimicking , parrot , has jay mohr in the lead role of the bird - the voice , not the body - and as the minor character of benny , a small-time crook who uses paulie to pull off small scams like stealing twenties from atms . 
as the parrot , mohr is delightful when director john roberts allows him to cut up . 
benny , on the other hand , is a character you've seen a thousand times before , and mohr brings nothing new to that role . 
roberts's deliberately slow pacing of laurie craig's script lends a subtle sweetness to its humor but creates some definite problems . 
when a kids' movie wants to mosey along , watch out . 
if the material is not crisp and perfectly composed , beauty can sometimes dissolve into tedium . 
so it is with paulie . 
when they let their bird do his stand-up comedy routines , the show hums and the audience roars . 
too often , however , a sleepy silence ensues among the viewers as they wait for the story to pickup again . 
tony shalhoub , the smart-mouthed chef from big night , plays misha , a recent russian immigrant to the u . s . he had been a teacher of literature at home , but now he makes his living as a janitor in the animal research lab to which paulie has been taken for study . 
although misha gets a few nice lines ( " i'm russian . 
i like long stories . " ) , 
his somber part seems designed only to elicit our sympathy . 
besides paulie , the only character worth noting - other than 2 cute small parts played by cheech marin and gina rowlands - is the speech-impaired marie , played in a precious performance by cinematic newcomer , 5-year-old hallie kate eisenberg . 
naturally enchanting , she gives the picture genuine heart . 
the bad news is that her part is confined to the first half . 
the best scenes have the bird dancing and strutting to show off his comedic skills . 
when marie's family gets a cat , for example , the bird , who hasn't wanted to learn how to fly until then , takes an instant interest in soaring . 
tricking the cat while insulting him at the same time , paulie calls him a stupid hairball . 
their rapid physical antics add to the humor of the situation . 
it's good quality sitcom material but performed by animals . 
when one of the humans without much of a voice begins to sing , paulie cringes . 
 " i'm a bird , " he explains with his frequently subtle humor . 
 " i have a small brain , and it's about to explode . " 
the movie contains rich doses of john debney's dreamy music . 
with heavy use of a solo violin , he keeps reinforcing the film's heart-warming themes . 
and when paulie finally takes off in flight , the orchestra comes up loud and strong with cymbals clashing . 
 " it's a long story , " says paulie . 
 " it's the only kind he knows , " reflects misha . 
and the motion picture , which runs the standard length for a kids' movie , still feels too long . 
the best parts are enthralling , but then there are all of those dead spots in-between . 
paulie is a movie that never quite lives up to its promise but manages to charm nevertheless . 
paulie runs 1 : 32 . 
it is raged pg for a few mild profanities and would be fine for all ages . 
my son , jeffrey , age 9 , gave the movie * * with his biggest complaint being that there wasn't enough action . 
he thought paulie was funny , and the actress that played marie was quite good . 
his friend sam , almost 9 , thought the movie was " awesome , excellent , " and gave it * * * * . 
he thought paulie was good , but he didn't believe the way marie's speech impediment was acted . 
well , here's a distasteful , thoroughly amateurish item that , surprisingly , was actually a box-office hit at the time of its release . 
after just viewing the film for the first time , my primary question is how did anyone with an iq north of 35 enjoy this movie ? 
it is cheap , idiotic , unfunny , and not nearly as raunchy as i had heard it was . 
at least some smut would have livened things up a bit . 
 " porky's , " tells the story ( if you can call it that ) of four clueless high school buddies , pee wee ( dan monahan ) , billy ( mark herrier ) , tommy ( wyatt knight ) , and mickey ( roger wilson ) , whom desperately want to get laid . 
women , for the most part , are a mystery to them ( and in this movie , they are to the audience , as well , since all of them are written and acted as if they are aliens from a different planet ) . 
their plan is sidetracked , however , when they venture out to a smarmy strip bar named porky's , which they are able to get into using fake id's . 
after they pay the manager one-hundred bucks for three hookers , they are played a trick on and find themselves being dumped into the swamp below the building . 
for these four teenage guys , this means war on porky's . 
 " porky's , " ultimately manages to fail on almost every possible level . 
as a teenage sex-romp , it is not wild or amusing enough . 
as a comedy , all of the jokes are predictable and fall flat . 
as a look back at the 1950's , it is something , i suspect , most people from that era would want to bury deep in a grave . 
and as a revenge movie , it is a crushing bore . 
one of the most offensive things about , " porky's , " is how jaw-droppingly inaccurate the film is about teenagers . 
the four main characters are not even attempted to be developed as characters , and we learn very little about them , except that they are horny and would probably feel more comfortable in a preschool . 
that sure is revealing information . 
the female characters fare even worse under the inaudacious screenplay and direction by bob clark . 
the women are all treated as objects or comedy props , rather than real people . 
for example , the two gym teachers , mrs . balbricker ( nancy parsons ) and honeywell ( kim cattrall ) , only have one purpose , and that is to be made fun of . 
mrs . balbricker is a gruff , no-holds-barred , overwight woman who will not stand for any foolishness , and , in one particularly embarrassing scene for all involved , honeywell has sex with a coach and barks like a dog . 
there is no way to tell if parsons or cattrall are servicable actresses ( even though i have the suspicion they are not ) , but one thing is for sure : they are asked to do things in this film that are not at all funny , only humiliating . 
to prove how out-of-touch this so-called comedy is , compare it to other more serious 80's films about teenagers , and it looks even worse in comaprison . 
any of the john hughes pictures , such as 1984's " sixteen candles , " or , 1985's " the breakfast club , " put , " porky's , " at an even greater shame . 
those films actually dealt with serious teen matters , but remained a great deal funnier , thanks to their bright and truthful writing . 
and heck , if , " porky's , " wanted to be a teenage sex movie , i'd take 1982's " fast times at ridgemont high , " or 1982's " the last american virgin , " over this any day of the week . 
director bob clark is not a bad director . 
two years after he made , " porky's , " he directed the nostalgic holiday classic , " a christmas story . " 
i would forgive him for this misfire , in fact , if it wasn't for the fact that he also wrote the screenplay . 
just the thought that someone would actually sit down to write such a piece of garbage , and think that it was actually a film worth releasing unto the unsuspecting world , is actually a whole lot funnier than anything in , " porky's . " 
okay , i just don't know why , but i seem to be getting this diversion to disney-made real-life actors movies . . . as 
well as real-life acting tim allen movies . 
i couldn't even make it through " the santa clause , " so why did i even see this ? 
 ( just to make an idle point , i did like " toy story , " but that was good ) also , i have this aversion to bad french farces , and if they remake them into american films . 
well , this is my excuse : it was prom night , i'm not a prom person , my best friend and i impulsively went to the drive-ins where they were playing " grosse pointe blank " - wouldn't mind seeing it again - but i had to suffer through this first . 
i agreed to go . 
ugh . 
in all fairness , i can say that at least this inane plot wasn't dreamed by an american . 
it was originally a french film released in america under the pseudonym of " little indian , big city " ( french title - " un indien dans la ville " ) . 
i stayed away from it like it was limburgher , and according to roger ebert , that was a good idea . 
but i can only imagine how bad that must be if this is an improvement . 
the stupid plot concerns a father who just learns he has a son from his current marriage . 
let me clarify : his wife ( jobeth williams ) left him years ago , and i mean years - around 13 or so - and went to an island in the carribean or something . 
he goes to her to finally get the divorce papers signed so he can remarry this . . . thing 
 ( played with an emphasis on over-done by lolita davidovitch , who is usually good ) . 
she tells him he has a son as his boatman goes off . 
he meets him , he has a weird name ( mimi seku , i think . . . or 
as the bad joke goes - " mitsubishi " - laugh track cue ) , he knows english , they fish , more bad jokes , pirhanna joke , the kid has a pet spider , he makes a promise to take him to the statue of liberty . . . you 
know the drill . 
now this is where the plot complicates ( well , complicates for this one , at least ) : the fish-out-of-water joke switches from tim allen on an island to his island son in new york city . 
tim is a stock broker and his coffee profits are plunging because his laptop died and he wasn't able to communicate with his assistant or whatever he is - martin short . 
a russian mob is tossed into the plot somewhere ( how come in every hokey french import , there is a mob ? ! ) 
tim learns a lesson of life from his son and we discover that cellular phones can operate on an island even though there are no sockets to recharge the batteries . 
the story is crap , the jokes are hokey and not really funny , and the actors have to struggle to make it interesting . 
but the material is so fowl that even a rewrite by quentin tarantino couldn't help it . 
the whole time , i kept thinking that a grown person had to think this up and several more grown people had to do this . 
at the end of filming , did they all scream out , " we've made a great movie , guys ! " 
i sure hope not . 
big question to get from this film : why would someone want to remake what was billed as one of the worst films of all time if they're just going to do it the exact same way ? 
huh ? 
my ( for some of the actors' names and a joke or two that made me chuckle , i guess . . . okay , 
so i really feel bad for it , so i only gave it one star ) 
 " the beach " is a structurally confusing film that i can only describe has having multiple personality disorder . 
every forty minutes of this two-hour film begins with a new theme , virtually discarding what has been set up in the preceding act . 
it starts off purposefully as a film about an innocent man seeking new thrills in a dangerous environment . 
but then in the second act , the mood of the film abruptly changes and it becomes a story about a love triangle on an idyllic island paradise that evokes visions of " blue lagoon " . 
forty minutes later , the mood changes once more , and it becomes a dumbed down version of " lord of the flies " where an isolated community is discovered , where their moral code touts maintaining a sense of bliss at all costs . 
by the time it's over , you can only scratch your head and wonder what this film was really meant to be about . 
the main character of " the beach " is angst-ridden richard ( leonardo dicaprio ) . 
he travels to the netherworld of bangkok where back alley merchants push their wares upon unsuspecting tourists and scantily clad women brazenly ask if you're looking for a good time . 
richard's voice-over tells the audience that he has come to this place because he is bored with his life and feels that one way to reinvigorate himself is to let go of the familiar and to enter into a world of the unknown . 
this seedy environment is just what richard is looking for . 
he checks into a fleabag hotel where he meets the crazed daffy ( robert carlisle ) . 
he seems like a raving lunatic , obviously high from heavy drug use and looking as if he is afflicted with some sort of psychosis . 
though his jagged behavior would distress most of us , richard listens to him as he speaks of a mysterious island that contains the most perfect beach that anyone has ever seen . 
moreover , the island itself flourishes with enough hemp plants that can make a small city high for life . 
captivated by the idea , he asks two other hotel guests to join him on his journey . 
they are worldly etienne and the alluring francoise , who have also come to thailand for reasons similar to richard's . 
once they finally arrive at this paradise , however , the mood of the story shifts to richard's growing desire for francoise . 
this particular plot point is weak at best because there is absolutely no question in my mind that francoise will wind up with richard . 
etienne is about as exciting as fluffy , white sand . 
it's odd that etienne never sees this coming , but paradise has a way of hiding potential threats just out of view . 
and once the three stumble across the hidden community ( mood shift imminent ) , more events transpire that depict its hidden dangers . 
for example , there are marijuana fields close by patrolled by armed guards . 
and the lagoon in which they swim invites the occasional shark . 
there are several ideas that are introduced in " the beach " and each one could merit its own feature-length film . 
there's the man vs . nature angle , the love triangle angle , and the utopia-gone-awry angle . 
but the film meanders so tremendously that its entire purpose becomes blurred . 
dicaprio , as a result , has an almost impossible time of trying to embody the different states of mind that he and the film goes through . 
consequently , the audience has an equally difficult time trying to keep up . 
the most absurd remake of 1998 ? 
it's a toss up between gus van sant's psycho and mighty joe young , the new disney picture based on the old rko picture . 
 ( i knew i was in trouble when a polished , computer-generated version of that famous rko logo appeared before the head credits . ) 
there is no great demand for another giant ape movie-make that ape movie , period . 
 ( witness the quick deaths of buddy , born to be wild and congo . ) 
and while this latest entry is inoffensive and watchable , it's also an assembly line product through and through , lacking the charm and unpredictability of the jungle serials that partly inspired it . 
theron is jill young : as a young girl in the wilds of africa , she befriended a baby gorilla after both their mothers were slain by poachers . 
that baby gorilla ( nicknamed joe ) grows to immense proportions , and adult jill basically bides her time looking after him , playing hide and seek with him and guarding him against poachers . 
enter conservationist greg ( paxton ) , who convinces jill to move with joe to california , where they can protect him better in a controlled environment . 
joe is restless at first ; no sooner does he finally settle in to the new place than those nasty poachers show up in l . a . , plotting joe's demise . 
suffice it to say , the movie could have been called " joe : ape in the city . " 
theron ( so good in devil's advocate ) and paxton ( so good in the recent a simple plan ) are fine actors , but not fine enough to transcend the material , a paint-by-numbers script from the hack writers of superman iv and mercury rising . 
the plot arguably borrows more from steven spielberg's the lost world than the 1949 original , with the computer-generated t-rex-i mean , joe-wreaking havoc on the busy streets for an encore ; the storytelling becomes especially lazy during this final third , with jill shouting , " look , joe's headed for the movie theatre ! " 
followed by a shot of joe scaling mann's chinese theater ; a moment later , jill shouts again something like " look , joe's headed for an amusement park ! " and what do you know , there's joe at the pallisades carnival , scaring the bejesus out of innocent thrillseekers . 
the seams of last-minute edits to mighty joe young show-unrelated scenes are patched together with quick dissolves . 
the movie sure feels uneven , regardless : act two is underdeveloped , while a little of joe smashing cars in act three goes a long , long way . 
underwood ( tremors , speechless ) was perhaps not the director for the job ; even the plentiful , untamed landscape looks dull in his hands . 
 ( capturing the beauty of nature requires more than his point and shoot style . ) 
i did enjoy certain sequences , especially the demoliton of a black-tie dinner sequence ; and the prologue , however implausible , is touching . 
 ( as a tyke , joe acts just like e . t . ) rick baker's make-up effects and puppetry are outstanding , the real star of the show-yet , for all its technical flawlessness , the creature remains too grumpy and homicidal to love . 
 ( his facial expressions are variations on a scowl . ) 
to be fair , i saw mighty joe young in a cinema packed with wailing children-it's a wonder i was able to decipher the dialogue . 
it's certainly not a film for very young kids-intense fighting scenes may scare them , while any time joe's not on camera may bore them to tears . 
 ( note : older boys are more likely to be dazzled by theron's colourful array of tank tops . ) 
i suspect bland mighty joe young is passable entertainment for a family outing , but they sure don't make ? em like they used to . 
in 1990 , the surprise success an unheralded little movie called ghost instantly rescued the moribund careers of its trio of above-the-title stars , patrick swayze , demi moore , and whoopi goldberg . 
eight years later , moore and goldberg's careers aren't exactly thriving , but they have had their share of screen successes since ; the same can't be said of swayze , who has just added yet another turkey to his resume with the aptly named black dog . 
forget the mortal kombat movies--this trucksploitation flick is the closest the movies has come to video games . 
good truck driver jack crews ( swayze ) must drive a cargo of illegal firearms from atlanta to new jersey . 
along the way , jack and his crew of three run into a number of obstacles--such as a highway weigh station , evil truckers , and deadly uzi-firing motorcyclists . 
every so often , like at the end of a video game " level " or " stage , " the main baddie pops up : red ( meat loaf , fresh from the triumph of spice world ) , who wants to steal the cache of guns . 
just in case you forget his name or have trouble keeping track of who's driving what , all of red's vehicles , be it a pickup or a big rig , are painted--you guessed it--red . 
i could go into more of the plot specifics ( such as jack's dream of having a nice home with his family , the past trauma that sent him to prison and cost him his trucking license , the fbi/atf crew tracking the cargo ) , but they are of little importance . 
all that matters to director kevin hooks and writers william mickelberry and dan vining are the obstacles jack confronts in his drive from point a to point b . but they fail at even this modest goal , for none of the highway chaos , as credibly staged as it is , is terribly interesting , let alone exciting . 
once you've seen a couple of trucks bang against each other or a big rig explode the first time , you've seen it every time . 
as dreary as black dog is as an entertainment , the saddest part about the film has nothing to do with what shows up onscreen ; it's that swayze has to reduce himself to such work . 
while far from the best of actors , he is certainly not horrible , and he is a charismatic presence . 
i don't know if it's his judgment or the dearth of quality job offers that leads him to involve himself with bombs such as black dog . 
regardless , if he continues on this career track , could a tv series be far behind ? 
these days , we are witnessing the deluge of films based on old , cult tv shows . 
most of the times , the fans of these shows shudder thinking what could hollywood hacks of the present do with the memories of their past . 
but , some five or six years ago , there weren't that many movies and the trend didn't look that depressing . 
so , the people who , like the author of this review , grew up watching flintstones , popular 1960s animated series about " modern stone age " family , weren't particularly worried when the word came about live action remake . 
after all , the producer behind the project was steven spielberg and , if anything else , at least the special effects would be good . 
the plot revolves about flintstones , family set in fictious stone age " town " of bedrock , whose members enjoy the lifestyle of 1950s middle class america . 
fred flinstone ( john goodman ) works in the quarry , and one day he helps his best friend and neighbour barney rubble ( rick moranis ) and his wife betty ( rosie o'donnell ) to adopt a baby . 
to return the favour , barney switches his results of aptitude test with fred , and , based on that , fred gets well-paid job in management . 
but , of course , this is just a sham - corrupt official cliff vandercave ( kyle maclachlan ) and his sultry secretary sharon stone ( halle berry ) need a scapegoat for their embezzlement scheme . 
in the meantime , fred's wife wilma ( elizabeth perkins ) must face her mother ( elizabeth taylor ) who can't stand fred . 
on the superficial level , the flintstones did the excellent job in bringing the animated series to life . 
computer effects are flawless , and the costumes , settings and other details are authentic for all the fans of the show . 
unfortunately , problems with this film start with inadequate casting - rick moranis is too thin for the role of barney , while the cartoon betty used to be much skinnier than rosie o'donnell . 
but the greatest problem of all is plot , or to be precise , the lack of plot . 
some thirty six screenwriters made sure that the plot of the film is lame , original characters one-dimensional , and many elements of the story , like embezzlement and inter-office politics , totally incomprehensible for the little children , the main targeted audience of this film . 
result is almost unwatchable mess , occasionally saved mostly by excellent acting ( elizabeth perkins was right on mark as wilma ) and one of the classic example of mortal hollywood disease known as " high concept " . 
after great hype , movie quickly sank into oblivion and the fans of the show returned to the animated version . 
all in all , film isn't that bad , but only the hard core fans and nostalgics can find more than guilty pleasure in it . 
after 1993's " falling down , " i hoped that joel schumacher would mature into a great director . 
since then he has offered us two so-so adaptations of john grisham novels ( " the client " and " a time to kill " ) and two batman movies that lowered the standards of that franchise . 
although these disappointments dampened my enthusiasm for schumacher's potential , the publicity for his latest release , " 8mm , " raised new hope . 
it promised to be something unusual . 
it wasn't . 
the plot goes like this : tom welles ( nicolas cage ) is a private eye who is hired by a wealthy woman , allegorically named mrs . christian ( myra carter ) , to investigate an 8mm movie found among her late husband's belongings . 
the movie appears to be a snuff film in which a teenage girl is raped and murdered by a man in a leather mask ( who reminds me of bane in schumacher's " batman & robin " ) . 
because murders can be realistically simulated in movies , mrs . christian wants tom to discover if the girl is alive or dead . 
by combing through missing persons reports , tom finds the girl's name and tracks her to los angeles . 
with the aid of max california ( joaquin phoenix ) , a video store clerk ( and another symbolic name ) , tom wanders through the underworld of pornography in search of snuff . 
the plot bears an obvious resemblance to paul schrader's " hardcore , " in which a father goes deeper and deeper into the industries of porn and sex to find his missing daughter . 
both films are modeled on dante's " the inferno , " of course ; " 8mm " makes that connection overly obvious by casting max as virgil and having him constantly tell tom that they were heading toward a meeting with the devil . 
 " hardcore " is a much more subtle and meaningful film . 
 " 8mm " had a lot of promise . 
in its better moments it's an examination of violence as entertainment and of the beast within even a nice guy like tom . 
one moment of the first sort : when we first meet max he's reading truman capote's " in cold blood " underneath the cover of a porn novel . 
 " in cold blood " was the father of the true-crime genre , which is the literary equivalent of snuff films . 
max promises that we will see examples of the second theme when he tells tom , " dance with the devil and the devil don't change ; the devil changes you . " 
tom does change-i'll let you discover the specifics for yourself-but not permanently . 
schumacher and screenwriter andrew kevin walker didn't have the guts to take tom so far down the dark tunnel that he couldn't come back . 
 ( walker's " seven " did a much better job on that theme by refusing to compromise ) . 
cage tries hard to pull it off , but the script doesn't give him enough to work with . 
phoenix walks away with the movie-he's smart , charming , and funny . 
other cast members include " fargo " 's peter stormare camping it up as porn auteur dino velvet and " the sopranos " 's james gandolfini as a soulless porn merchant who pushes tom too far . 
in the last analysis , since " 8mm " falls short of its pretensions and its promise , its just another private eye story in the raymond chandler/ross macdonald tradition of having the detective uncover the depravity behind the glossy facade of wealth and privilege . 
however , unlike other predictable fare in the genre-last year's " twilight , " for example- " 8mm " is especially disappointing because it could have been much more than it is . 
i think of i know what you did last summer as the movie that scream and scream 2 could have been . 
mind you , though , i mean this in the worst possible way . 
i know what you did last summer is a typical slasher flic without the smarts of the scream's . 
as a result , it's even worse than some of your better campy horror pictures ( see nightmare on elm street ) because it thinks it's about thirty times smarter than it is . 
based on a teen book of the same name and , disappointingly , adapted by scream scribe kevin williamson , i know what you did last summer begins with appropriately angsty modern rock music combined with some startling cinematography of a cliff along the ocean and an angsty sort sitting at the top . 
the appropriate mood being set ( this is angst-horror for the 90's ) , we cut over to the july 4th parade in a small north carolina town . 
from there , we see the blond , female protagonist , helen shivers ( woodenly played by sarah michelle geller ) , getting crowned croaker queen as the blond male " hero , " barry cox ( woodenly played by ryan phillipe ) , and matched brunette pair of protagonists , julie james and ray bronson ( woodenly played by party of five's jennifer love hewitt and freddie prinze jr . , respectively ) cheer her on . 
after getting drunk at a party , going to a beach to wittily discuss urban legend and indulge in some foreshadowing , and having some meaningful sex ( if you believe what the characters say ) , the four run down some guy crossing the windy cliff road at night . 
his face is mangled so they can't tell who it is , and they come to the decision to dump him in the ocean so as to not ruin any of their future chances for success in the world . 
cut to one year later . 
the lives of our protagonists have gone from annoying to bad . 
main brunette female , the bright one of the bunch , has been plagued with guilt and almost failed out of college . 
blond female has forfeited her dreams of starring on guiding light , and now works at the family store in town . 
brunette male is a fisherman , living off the land . 
blond male has become a complete jerk and quarterback on some college football team . 
then , predictably , their past comes back to haunt them . 
it all begins with an irrational murder , followed by some taunting of protagonists by the mysterious killer , bad acting by a good actress ( anne heche ) , an improbable plot , bad acting by the main bad actors , some more killing , concluding in a climactic scene , mostly climactic in the relief at the end of the movie . 
all the while , the actors and actresses spout off bad lines , and main brunette male does his best keanu reeves imitation . 
not that the movie was without pleasure . 
count the illogical plot twists and bad lines for some fun . 
mostly , though , note the costumes of main females and how trendily unattractive they make the otherwise eye-catching pair look . 
 " nothing more than a high budget masturbation fantasy " 
showgirls ( nc-17 ) - contains graphic nudity , profanity , sexual situations and violence . 
some people , however , keep their clothes on . 
you do not watch porn films for their intellectual values , nor do you write reviews on them . 
that's why this review will be short . 
it seems that this film will end up in the porn section when it hits the video stores . 
there is no story , script , point or acting . 
only naked bodies , which is exactly the point . 
here is the so called plot : nomi , the 23-year-old with a dark past as a hooker , has hitchhiked from somewhere back east to perform in a show where a dancer doesn't wear much more than a light coating of powder and a big , fake smile . 
no one is twisting nomi's arm . 
no one is holding her grandmother hostage . 
she wants to do this . 
and that is what she is doing till the end credits . 
so what's the problem then ? 
what's the point ? 
what's the film about ? 
is there anyone whose aspirations could inspire less sympathy ? 
this film can be described in one sentence : obscene level of incompetence , excessive stupidity in the story line , gross negligence of the viewer's intelligence , a prurient interest in the quick buck . 
believe me , after an hour with these characters , acting and script , you'll start hoping for someone to kill somebody . 
elizabeth berkley makes a laughable try as the heroine of this film , that is bad even for eszterhas' script . 
her character is the only one that is at least half written and she could really have done better . 
her character denies the fact that she is a whore for the industry , selling her body to the hungry eyes of the horny public . 
 " i am not a whore ! 
i am a dancer " , she screams , but does it in such an over dramatized way that you'll start laughing . 
in fact the acting in " showgirls " brings terrible to a new and previously unknown level . 
not one single achievement , besides the conventional cinematography , is worth mentioning . 
it is a total waste of time and money . 
there is not a single moment of what you might call intelligence . 
the dialogue is structured of ancient stereotypes and cliches lined up one after another . 
its attempt to even imagine to have half a brain results in a catastrophe . 
 " in my films , " writes director paul verhoeven ( 'basic instinct' , 'total recall' ) , " i hold the mirror up to life . " 
well , excuse me ? 
his attempt to go behind the scenes of las vegas , and as he put it " show the naked truth " , is simplified and unreal . 
occasionally , between his collection of mistakes and logical irrationalities , screenwriter joe eszterhas ( the creator of some of the worst screenplays in hollywood history ) inserts some lines of deep morality , that sound something like this : " hey , i see you . 
i see that you're hiding " - " from what ? " 
- " from you " . 
yes , and even the only decent line in this film : " nomi is what las vegas is all about " can't save 'showgirls' from going under . 
it's a strange phenomena . 
it's not erotic , because it lacks sensuality . 
not dramatic , because it lacks the acting . 
and not intelligent because it lacks a story . 
it is simply verhoven's bad excuse for making pornography . 
you want to see naked women ? 
bare breasts ? 
full frontals ? 
it's nothing wrong with that . 
but in that case i suggest that you rent a porn film in your local video store , and not waste time surviving through eszterhas' pathetic dialogue . 
b qualities , while it's only a high budget porn-film . 
one of the 90s' most unwelcome thriller trends returns from the grave : it's the " ___ from hell " movie ! 
starting in the early nineties , we were subjected to nearly every conceivable combination of relationships-from-hell ! 
there were boyfriends from hell , friendly neighborhood cops from hell , nannies from hell , and even secretaries from hell . 
but hush has found an old standby that somehow was forgotten in the rush : the mother-in-law from hell ! ! ! ! ! 
the mother-in-law in question is martha , played by jessica lange . 
she has been single-handedly running the family horse farm , kilronan . 
her son , jackson ( johnathon schaech ) and his girlfriend , helen ( gwyneth paltrow ) , live in new york , and have no intention to move back down south to the rural kilronan . 
but those intentions are about to change . 
you see , martha lives by manipulation . 
she has used it in years past to breed many championship horses . 
now , she believes she can use it to breed herself a grandson . 
though at first , helen finds martha charming , soon she is caught in the domineering martha's web of deception . 
it's hard to understand why nobody ever wises up to martha' schemes . 
as written , most of the characters in the film must be very slow witted . 
but then , the film even treats the audience like idiots . 
it tries to get away with things ( like leaving a critical piece of evidence in a rather unlikely place ) without even batting an eye . 
then again an audience which accepts characters as shallow as these isn't one that's likely to question details . 
jessica lange's martha is the only semi-developed character in the film , and she applies her talents to redeem it as much as she can . 
a character that could have been simply awful is merely groan-worthy . 
gwyneth paltrow doesn't have much to build upon , as helen's only character trait seems to be " daughter-in-law " . 
still , she fares better than johnathon schaech , whose character is so nonexistent , he's inexplicably missing for much of the film . 
still , there have been much worse " ____ from hell " films . 
even with its paper-thin characters and ludicrous setups , hush manages to create a few thrills in a color-by-numbers fashion . 
you know what's coming , but occasionally the film will deliver a shock or two . 
the old formulas are around for a reason , but that doesn't mean they taste fresh . 
mugshot ( director/writer/cinematographer/editor : matt mahurin ; cast : belinda becker ( stella ) , michael williams ( rumor ) , robert knepper ( joe/chris ) , robert walker ( random ) , willie lassic ( young brother of rumor ) , maxine joiner ( rumor's mother ) ; runtime : 87 ; mortal films ; 1995 ) 
reviewed by dennis schwartz 
a bleak indie film about a stolen identity . 
there's not much more to this visually stylish film than what meets the eye , as it relies on shock to tell its story of a prolonged vicious mugging . 
it falls into the category of being a pretentious art-house film , leaving a bitter taste in one's mouth as it stereotypes its characters and unintentionally further inflames the racial issues . 
it tries to make a heavy-handed point about disenfranchised black youths trapped by their environment , with their only way out being crime . 
but the story is so filled with violence and its nyc setting looks like hell , that it's hard to enjoy this film and to follow what the logic in the story is supposed to mean . 
the relationship between the black mugger and his white victim is a cloudy one , which the film never determines what it wants to say about it . 
matt mahurin is virtual one-man crew in putting this film together ( director/writer /cinematographer/editor ) , who is a still photographer in his day job . 
the film works best as a visually challenging piece , as each shot looks like a photograph carefully telling the story unfolding . 
a white photographer ( robert knepper ) is mugged by a black gang while he's on a freelance assignment to take a photo shoot of harlem at night . 
he becomes a victim of amnesia and his head is bloodied as he's left in a deserted harlem building , as the gang leaves him for dead ; but , one of the muggers , rumor ( michael williams ) , comes back and pretends to help him . 
he's a would-be photographer , who keeps a scrapbook entitled mugshots in the project apartment he shares with his mother and younger brother . 
keeping his victim in the dark about who he is by calling him joe and not telling him what's happening , he becomes the photographer for a few days . 
he enters the photographer's stylish greenwich village apartment and steals his expensive camera , and decides to hold the mugging vic for ransom when he finds out he has a black girlfriend , stella ( belinda becker ) . 
she's the only one in the film who could act . 
the film is stuck with a clumsy dialogue and an overuse of symbolism , as it ends with nothing more to tell after the shock and the violent situation it created except to beat it into the ground . 
it could only be commended for how appealing the film looks , as if it's a scrapbook of still photos put together to celebrate a mugging . 
i can imagine how good krippendorf's tribe must have looked on paper . 
it does not surprise me in the least that a group of extremely talented actors , led by the great richard dreyfuss and a good director ( todd holland ) , all wanted to make this film . 
in fact , it is only the expertise by which this excruciatingly bad script has been executed that keeps me from suggesting that you stay as far away from krippendorf's tribe as possible . 
in retrospect , i can imagine how bad this film could have been . 
i shudder at the possibilities of awfulness had it starred an actor less able than dreyfuss . 
dreyfuss plays james krippendorf , an anthropologist who is granted $100 , 000 by his university to find an undiscovered tribe in new guinea . 
halfway into his two-year expedition , his wife ( apparently ) dies . 
i say apparently because when or how she dies is never truly established . 
later , we find out that much of the grant money was spent on big-screen tvs and other such pleasures . 
so , when krippendorf finds out what happens to professors who do not use their grant money wisely , he decides to construct an elaborate lie . 
he makes his own tribe , using his three children as actors in a video . 
he simply makes up certain incredible facts about this tribe ( which he calls the shelmickedmu ) . 
audiences at krippendorf's lectures are amazed by his findings that the shelmickedmu practice circumcision . 
and proof that the typical family unit is led by a single father is truly amazing to the anthropological community . 
like all films like this , the lie becomes more and more complex , and the suspense is generated with us wondering at what point it is all going to fall out from under our hero . 
dreyfuss is a funny , talented man , and he is funny in this film . 
he has lots of positive energy and , unlike most comical actors , really manages to play people like this realistically . 
this film also requires a lot of physical humor that i've never seen dreyfuss perform , and he does a great job . 
jenna elfman , who plays veronica mecilli , a scientist who wants in on krippendorf's work , is also very funny and appealing here . 
and the kid actors are great , as well . 
but we're talking about the script from hell . 
this is one of those stories that requires such extreme suspension of disbelief that they might as well have established that the story just takes place in an alternate universe where things like this can happen . 
but the ridiculousness of the story is not really what is so bad about it . 
all the cliches and the irritating plot devices could have easily been overcome by dreyfuss and crew . 
no , the script is plagued with so many clueless stereotypes and mean-spirited characters that i was in disbelief as i watched . 
furthermore , the manor in which all of this material is covered up is truly shameless . 
take , for instance , the scene in which krippendorf gets veronica drunk so he can tape them having sex . 
they get all decked out in the tribe getup , complete with paint to darken their skin . 
krippendorf does this because he needs footage of the mating rituals of his tribe . 
now , i saw this scene coming from a mile away , but i said to myself , " no , that would be far too tasteless . 
there's no way they'll do that . . . oh 
god ! " 
they did do it . 
it's there . 
i was almost more appalled by the fact that this didn't bother the other audience members with whom i saw this film . 
i found it deplorable . 
and when krippendorf is forced to admit that he did it , he simply apologizes without the slightest hint of conviction in his voice . 
the film is filled with scenes like these . 
they not only insult the audience , but they insult the types of people that the film portrays . 
it would take some truly professional work to create videos convincing enough to fool an entire community of scientists , yet krippendorf does it easily in an afternoon . 
and watching dreyfuss stumble over a completely unprepared speech is funny and entertaining , but i think that most members of the on-screen audience would be able to see that he is making everything up as he goes . 
if i were an anthropologist , this film would insult me immensely . 
moving right along , the film plays off every stereotype our culture has ever learned regarding african tribes . 
sure , dreyfuss dressing up like a chief is really funny , and it allows for some entertaining scenes , but the heart of this material is deeply clueless as to the themes and thoughts that it provokes . 
it is because of dreyfuss as an actor that i was able to watch this film . 
his character here is not a good subject for a film because he is a shameless liar , and never once does he show any kind of penance for what he does . 
i suppose it was interesting to see the formula defied in this case , but for the purposes of good taste , i would have expected something . 
no , this man sets a terrible example for his kids and colleagues , and the writer of the film ( charlie peters ) didn't include a single scene in which krippendorf takes his kids aside and tells them that what he is doing is very bad . 
in fact , it's his eldest daughter that frequently tells him that he is doing the wrong thing , and he continually shrugs off her warnings . 
i suppose it's important to admit that this is a funny film . 
dreyfuss and elfman , and many of the contrived and insulting scenes , add up to a picture that is anything but boring . 
and if you're less serious than i , you probably will enjoy it . 
i , however , can't get past these elements . 
krippendorf's tribe is being marketed as a family comedy , but this is the kind of film that teaches the kids of our society faulty lessons that they shouldn't be learning . 
with a little more insight into its story and themes , this could have been a good movie . 
after a marketing windup of striking visuals and the promise of star caliber actors , mission to mars ends up throwing a whiffleball . 
fiercely unoriginal , director depalma cobbles together a film by borrowing heavily from what has gone before him . 
there are aliens similar to those in close encounters of the third kind . 
the stranded astronaut theme is reminiscent of robinson crusoe on mars . 
the astronauts encounter space flight difficulties that smack of apollo 13 . 
interior spacecraft visuals are redolent of 2001 : a space odyssey . 
instead of using these components as a launching pad to create his own movie , de palma stops right there , refusing to infuse the film with anything even remotely resembling cleverness or heart . 
mission to mars takes it's first wobbly steps at a pre-launch barbeque in which the perfunctory character introductions are done . 
during these surface scans of the characters , we learn that jim mcconnell ( sinise ) has lost his wife . 
it's a plot point revisted throughout the film with jackhammer subtlety . 
the rest of the crew exhibit a bland affability . 
there is no contentiousness , no friction to add the the dramatic tension of these men and women being confined to close quarters for an extended length of time . 
maybe depalma was going for the comraderie of the right stuff , but in that movie , the astronauts had embers of personality to warm us through the technical aspects . 
it's the year 2020 and this is nasa's first manned excursion to the red planet . 
a crew , led by luke graham ( cheadle ) , arrives on mars and quickly discovers an anomaly , which they investigate with tragic results . 
graham is able to transmit a garbled distress call back to earth . 
in response , earth sends a rescue team comprised of mcconnell , woody blake ( robbins ) , wife terri fisher ( nielsen ) and phil ohlmyer ( o'connell ) . 
obstacles are put in the crew's way and and they matter-of- factly go about solving them . 
i should say , mcconnell goes about solving them . 
time and again , mcconnell is presented as some kind of wunderkind , which wouldn't be so bad if the rest of the crew didn't come across as so aggressivelly unremarkable . 
 ( mention should be made of the misogynistic handling of fisher in a situation where the entire crew's mission and life is in mortal danger . 
on a team of professionals , she is portrayed as an emotion directed weak link . 
women serve no purpose in the movie other than to serve as a reflection of a male character's personality trait . ) 
by the time they land on mars and try to solve the mystery of what occurred , mission to mars starts laying on the cliches and stilted dialogue with a heavy brush . 
there is an adage in film to " show , don't tell . " 
mission to mars does both . 
repeatedly . 
characters obsessively explain the obvious , explain their actions as they are doing them , explain to fellow astronauts facts which should be fundamental knowledge to them . 
the film's conclusion is momumentally derivative , anti-climatic and unsatisying . 
as i walked out i wondered who the target audience might be for this film . 
the best i could come up with is pre-teen age boys , but in this media saturated era , this film's components would have been old hat even for them . 
i have to think what attracted such talent to this film was the lure of making a good , modern day b-movie . 
the key to such a venture is a certain depth and sincerity towards the material . 
i felt no such earnestness . 
some movies ask you to leave your brain at the door , some movies ask you to believe in the impossible to really have a good time . 
playing god asks just one simple , eensy , teensy thing so it can fully entertain you , it's accomplished in just four easy to follow steps : crack open your skull , scoop out your brain , squish it under your foot several times and reverse steps two and one . 
congratulations , you now have all the necessary requirements to fully enjoy a whole lot of nothing . 
some movies fail at the box office but you manage to see why the producers thought it could have been a good movie , others are simply good ideas that are badly executed . 
then there's playing god , which enters the esteemed category of movies which seem to have grown from the union of a drunk director , actors satisfied in the knowledge that this horrible flick will have no lasting impact on their careers and a bunch of rip-offs ( or homages as they like to call it ) from other , better movies that end up looking like an unflushed toilet . 
harsh ? maybe . 
justified ? 
hell yes ! 
this is a movie that is not just satisfied in ripping off other movies but feels the need to remind us of that fact every ten minutes . 
for example , a gunman bursts into a garden with the two guns in his hands firing away . 
this does look moderately kool , but the camera lingers on the actor for so long you can almost hear the director yelling : " oooh , look look ! 
john woo ! 
two guns blazing ! 
slooooow motion ! " 
and if that wasn't enough , you can also hear the script grunting under the effort it must take to try and make every single line of dialogue sound like something deep and meaningful like in a tarantino movie . 
poor timothy hutton gets to deliver most of the corny lines , you have to admire the effort he puts into it , this guy deserves better . 
unlike most movies this one does not suffer from " stupid bad guy " syndrome , just to make things a little different this time we get stupid heroes . 
example : duchovny manages to distract a bad guy by making him go into the bathroom to get some bandages . 
now the bad guy is , like , stoned , man , so he leaves his shotgun next to our hero . 
 ( term used as loosely as possible ) 
survival instincts and a good dose of common sense seems to suggest grabbing the shotgun , which our hero does , but only after contemplating it for about thirty seconds . 
even when he does grab it he seems unsure how to hold it , going so far as to actually wonder if he should place a finger near the trigger . 
mind you , i've never fired a shotgun in my life but believe you me that the bad guy would be missing most of his vital organs , be he stoned or not . 
some will argue that our hero does not have a killer instinct , the hell with that ! 
two fbi guys have just been shot in front me , along with one bad guy and the other looks like he might go ballistic at any second . 
solution ? 
boom ! 
i'll take the time to feel sorry about it later thank you very much . 
another prime example of the idiot hero syndrome : 
our boy duchovny needs to reach his girl before something bad happens to her . 
he knows the head bad guy has her on the tenth floor of a building and that he might be running into a room full of people with itchy trigger fingers . 
he still has his shotgun , bring it along you say ? 
no thanks , i'll just ditch it in the back of my car . 
and the real kicker is this : when he reaches the room and people start shooting at him he has the nerve to look surprised ! 
while we are on the subject of getting shot , why in hades were those fbi guys sitting with their backs to the door ? 
i've got no formal training but even i know you never sit with your back to the door . 
ask mr . wild bill , the first and only time he did not sit with his back to a wall cost him his life . 
this is the major problem with this movie , any mook could have thought of a hundred ways to make it better . 
is it so much to ask that hollywood actually put a little common sense into their characters ? 
for instance : 
our heroes hide at duchovny's summer home , now the bad guys could come knocking at any moment . 
ok , this time our hero does get himself a gun and has it at his side most of the time . 
but see , our hero is a drug addict and guess what ? 
he chooses now to go clean and suffer through dt . 
oh sure , he'll be really impressive when the bad guys come calling . 
going clean is really honorable of him , but i would have waited until i did not need to be conscious or being able to fire a gun . 
for an enjoyable performance by timothy hutton , plot holes the size of godzilla , getting our intelligence insulted and several " oh come on ! " 
moments . 
preposterous religious action film ( produced by the trinity broadcasting network ) about a code hidden within the text of the bible that when deciphered will lead to the end of the world ( nice of those bible authors to put a doomsday code into the most read book ever eh ? ) . 
michael york plays a millionaire diplomat who breaks the code and sets out to become god on earth and fulfill the doomsday prophecies , while casper van dien ( terribly miscast and giving an awful performance as a result ) plays the atheist motivational speaker who must stop him . 
michael ironside ( great as always , despite the silly film surrounding him ) plays a fallen priest and right hand man to michael york's character . 
here's some subtle character development you may have missed pertaining to ironside's character . 
now despite the fact that we see him murder a man in the opening scene , the filmmakers aren't quite sure if their audience will understand that he is evil . 
how do they fix that ? 
make specific efforts to show that his character is the only one in the film who smokes ! 
there are lots of ominous shots of michael ironside smoking . . . 
oooooo scary . 
but even that wasn't enough for the filmmakers apparently , as they later have to infer that ironside's character is gay ! 
it comes out of nowhere and just makes no sense . 
my main problem with this film is that , despite the silly story ( which could have been pulled off . . . 
anything can be made believable if executed correctly ) , the events of the film aren't shown with any sense of urgency or importance . 
for example , at one point york's character is declared chancellor of the world or something , and we see one brief , cheesy news report about it . 
the movie keeps telling us that the apocalypse is coming , but it never seems that way . 
there's no " world reaction " to anything . 
the omega code is available on dvd from goodtimes home video . 
it contains the film in the original theatrical aspect ratio of 1 . 85 : 1 , and includes the original theatrical trailer , a documentary on the making of the film , production notes , and cast and crew information . 
the documentary runs about 25 minutes and is actually surprisingly good ( it looks as though it was made for broadcast on tbn ) , and it does a comprehensive job of interviewing practically everyone in the cast and crew ( with the exception of michael ironside , unfortunately ) . 
the best thing about it is that whenever crew members are interviewed , they do an excellent job of explaining their profession and exactly what it is they do on a movie set . 
most documentaries tend to overlook this . 
doomsday expert hal lindsey is even interviewed ( you'll remember his documentary from the 1970's called the late great planet earth , where lindsey speculated that jimmy carter might actually be the antichrist ) . 
however , at the very beginning of the documentary the producers of the film managed to get on my bad side . 
when interviewed they actually have the nerve to say " ever see raiders of the lost ark ? 
well , our film is like that ! " 
no it isn't . 
not by a long shot . 
[pg-13] 
 " america's sweethearts " has an intriguing premise and a great cast , but it isn't nearly as edgy or funny as it should be . 
almost all the problems with the project can be traced back to co-script writer billy crystal , who shows the same lack of discipline with the screenplay that he typically displays while co-hosting " comic relief " charity shows with robin williams and whoopi goldberg ( two other paragons of self-indulgence ) . 
crystal ignores a simple , but crucial , rule : for a screwball comedy to work , the characters must be placed into a rigid social setting , because only in that context will their unorthodox antics be humorous . 
 " america's sweethearts " takes place at a press junket , where decorum must be maintained in front of the reporters . 
it's a promising set-up , but the screenplay quickly blows off the rules , thus dissipating the tension of the situation . 
by the end of the film , all the lead performers participate in a huge fight with a room full of journalists looking on , but their outbursts are only mildly amusing because the structure has been destroyed . 
john cusack and catherine zeta-jones play eddie thomas and gwen harrison , a beloved acting duo whose marriage hit the skids when gwen began seeing hector ( hank azaria ) , a spanish actor with an ego almost as pronounced as his lisp . 
of the last nine films eddie and gwen made together , six crossed the $100 million mark , but the prospects for their final effort , a space opus titled " time over time , " are far from rosy . 
while eddie has spent many months in a new age rest clinic fretting over the breakup , gwen's solo films have tanked . 
to make matter worse , the director of the movie ( christopher walken ) , a " visionary " who purchased the unabomber's cabin and had it moved to his backyard , is withholding the film from the studio , insisting that the first screening be held at the junket . 
desperate to win over the press , the studio elects to hire lee ( billy crystal ) , a recently fired publicist , to salvage the situation . 
lee hopes to turn lemons into lemonade by convincing eddie and gwen to pretend to be on the road to reconciliation . 
he enlists the help of kiki ( julia roberts ) , gwen's sister , personal assistant and whipping girl . 
what lee doesn't know is that kiki is in love with eddie , a fact that could temper her effectiveness . 
press junkets are a haven for control freaks . 
studios fly journalists in from around the world and put them up in a plush hotel , with food and drink always at hand . 
generally , on the evening of their arrival , writers are bussed to see the featured film , then ferreted straight back to the hotel . 
the next day , writers go to the studio suites and assemble in groups of five or six for roundtable interviews . 
every 30 minutes or so , a producer , director , writer or actor is brought into the room for a few minutes of questions , with a publicist hovering in the corner to keep an eye on things . 
the atmosphere is one of cordial oppression ? writers are free to ask what they want , but understand that if the studio dislikes a question , they may not be invited to future junkets . 
representatives from tv stations face even more restrictions . 
they get roughly five minutes to interview each member of the cast and crew , with the studio filming the exchanges . 
the " reporters " are notorious for tossing softball questions as they suck up to the stars , but to play it safe , the studios stand ready to erase the tapes if anything unpleasant occurs . 
placing two spoiled actors in a setting where image is everything is inspired , but the screenplay undermines the conceit . 
the junket is moved from the handsome , but highly confining , four seasons hotel to a plush resort near las vegas . 
for most of the film , the movie stars run around the sprawling grounds , completely safe from the eyes of the press . 
when they do deal with journalists , the " it is imperative that you be on your best behavior in front of the reporters " premise is de-clawed . 
gwen and eddie insult each other while the tv cameras roll , they scream at each other in a restaurant filled with the media and , at the screening of the movie , everyone connected with the film goes nuts , all without any repercussions . 
lee certainly isn't bothered by any of the infantile outbursts ; in fact , he makes arrangements for footage of even more inappropriate behavior to be delivered to the tabloids . 
is the studio angry about his handling of the combative actors ? 
hell no ? they feel lee is a genius for garnering so much publicity for the movie . 
all of which underscores how billy crystal and co-writer peter tolan screwed up their own premise : the comedy in " america's sweethearts " is based on barely-in-control people trying to contain themselves in the presence of reporters , except that it doesn't matter because any publicity is good publicity . 
and thus the very set-up for the film implodes , leaving smoke and dust in place of laughter . 
so what about the cast ? 
julia roberts , at her best playing the underdog , is utterly charming here , although i could have lived without flashbacks that exist solely as an excuse to show her in a fat suit ( and not a very convincing one , by the way ) . 
catherine zeta-jones makes a believable brat and john cusack fleshes out his obsessed character enough to make him vaguely sympathetic . 
by casting himself as the publicist , billy crystal allows himself to do roughly the same thing he does on " comic relief " - stay on the sidelines of the action while tossing off cornball jokes and snarky remarks . 
in supporting roles , hank azaria wears out his welcome fast with broad gestures and a spanish accent that speedy gonzales would have deemed " too broad . " 
seth green is amusing as a toadie , stanley tucci is very good as a ruthless studio head and christopher walken plays the eccentric director with suitable flair , though he has little to work with . 
come to think of it , " little to work with " is the operative phrase for this movie . 
as a hollywood satire , " america's sweethearts " is toothless . 
as a romance , it is at best a minor pleasure . 
such a good cast , such a waste of their efforts . 
had it not been taken long ago , a better title for the film would have been " much ado about nothing . " 
do the folks at disney have no common decency ? 
they have resurrected yet another cartoon and turned it into a live action hodgepodge of expensive special effects , embarrassing writing and kid-friendly slapstick . 
wasn't mr . magoo enough , people ? 
obviously not . 
inspector gadget is not what i would call ideal family entertainment . 
younger viewers will likely be taken in by the abounding goofiness , but their adult companions may feel a wave of nausea sweeping over them as they attempt to endure this appalling 80-minute exercise in glaring stupidity . 
the movie is poorly edited , grossly manipulative , and the finished product resembles somewhat of a failed jigsaw puzzle . 
all the elements are there , but the manner in which director david kellogg pieces them together is laughable and trite . 
as a huge fan of the 80's animated tv show , the first thing i must express is my anger toward the treatment of the main villain . 
in the cartoon , dr . claw was a frightening , raspy-voiced presence who remained a total mystery to the viewer . 
we never saw his face ; he simply sat back in his arm-chair , watching surveillance cameras and gently stroking his loyal cat . 
as a child , i always imagined what dr . claw would appear as - and this curiosity kept me watching for many years . 
with the release of the live-action movie , the face of this once intriguing villain has been unrightfully exposed - it's . . . 
rupert everett ? ! 
only now , dr . claw is simply known as claw ( `one word , ' he explains , `like madonna' ) . 
he sports a shiny clamp instead of the steel glove , and seems far less interesting than the animated version . 
it helps that the dashing everett is enthusiastic , but he overplays the role entirely too far . 
when all is said and done , this wasn't a very wise move on the part of the screenwriters - the infamous dr . claw has been turned into a wisecracking game show host who makes cheap attempts at being suave and cool . 
he does still have his cat , though . 
in the title role , matthew broderick looks lost . 
the actor , while usually downright charming , doesn't know exactly where to take his character - a fault that again can be blamed on the hapless writers . 
broderick first plays a friendly , naive security guard named john brown , who dreams of becoming a cop and upholding the law for the good of the people . 
he has a mad crush on pretty scientist brenda ( joely fisher ) , who has stumbled upon a new wave of technology involving the interaction of human tissue and electronics . 
but one fateful night , her lab is destroyed and her experiment is stolen by a fiendish millionaire ( everett ) who wants to take over the world . 
john courageously pursues the limousine from the scene of the crime , but loses the chase when his vehicle bursts into flames . 
in a full body cast , he is chosen to be the first human prototype for brenda's work ; a revolutionary crime fighting tool with numerous fancy gadgets to dispatch bad guys . 
and so is born inspector gadget . 
as bad as this movie is , it does have a certain charm in isolated scenes . 
broderick actually fares better playing robo gadget , an evil and destructive clone that claw has set loose on the city . 
and there are about two or three amusing punch lines , the funniest being when robo gadget impersonates a rampaging monster with shadow puppets on a brick wall , and a japanese man flees the scene while screaming , `this is why i left tokyo ! ' 
alas , the hit ratio of the ongoing gags is about 20 to 1 in favor of not even cracking a slight giggle . 
there are so many tired plot additions . 
gadget's talking car ( voiced by d . l . 
hughley ) is the same type of character as zoot the suit from my favorite martian . 
both are wisecracking , non-human additions designed to coax laughter from smaller children . 
well , it just doesn't work ( in fact , zoot functioned marvelously in comparison to this ) . 
and don't even get me started about the villains . 
i didn't mind everett's performance , but his bumbling assistants will make every adult cringe with disgust . 
the characters from the cartoon have been reduced to thankless supporting roles . 
penny ( michelle trachtenberg ) and brain the dog now have little to do with the action , and chief quimby ( dabney coleman ) has lost considerable appeal in the transition of animation to live action . 
the special effects are everywhere , but not so annoying they will cause your eyes to peel over . 
the problem here lies solely in the script . 
perhaps the next time disney attempts a remake like this , they will invest more in the screenplay than the fancy-schmancy visuals . 
here is one critic crossing his fingers , anyway . 
if you haven't plunked down your hard-earned money yet for " wild wild west , " the latest summer holiday offering from will smith , let me say right now that your money will be better spent on a starbuck's frappacino or on a ben & jerry's sundae . 
these treats are great relief from the summer heat . 
in contrast , this film made me simmer in disappointment . 
i can accept the fact that summer movies tend to put more weight into special effects and that good stories and flavorful characters usually take a back seat . 
this was true of star wars episode i , but at least in that film , the story and the characters were still in the back seat . 
in this film , they are no where to be found . 
what remains are hundreds of male extras costumed as gunslingers and foppish aristocrats , lots of female extras who look like can-can dancers , and a clunky , 80-foot tall instrument of destruction that resembles a mechanical tarantula . 
two men are asked to stop this threat . 
one is artemus gordon ( kevin kline ) , an inventor who uses his intellect and array of disguises to best his opponents . 
among his creations are false breasts and the bulletproof vest . 
the other man is jim west ( will smith ) , who prefers the shoot-first-then-shoot-some-more method of investigating . 
although their individual talents must be combined to achieve success , their interaction with one another merely seemed like a second rate , two-man vaudevillian act . 
for example , there is a scene where west , being more debonair than the reserved gordon , notes that the fake breasts should be filled with water rather than buckwheat , which is what it is currently filled with . 
 " now touch my breast , " west says . 
gordon does so and then softly coos his approval . 
i found myself groaning at this kind of silliness . 
the script fails to generate any sense of drama , humor , or fun for that matter . 
i did enjoy kline's reserved performance , but was surprised at how much latitude they gave to smith . 
could it be that will smith is just so bankable that he's not even required to act ? 
it was as if the director was yelling " will smith , do your own thing . . . and 
action ! " 
here's an example . 
in this scene , will smith is about to be hanged by a group of angry white people . 
he must endear himself to the crowd to escape . 
the director yells , " will smith , do your own thing . . . and 
action ! " 
in another scene , he has to masquerade as a belly dancer in order to save his comrades . 
 " will smith , do your own thing . . . and 
action ! " 
worse still , the final battle scene aboard the mechanical tarantula is a horrid mess . 
there are cogs spinning and pulleys pulling and levers going up and down everywhere you look . 
there's actually a lot of imagination at work in this film . 
there are some genuinely clever inventions and gizmos introduced , but all of this imagination is wasted in a film that is visually cluttered and dramatically flat . 
and that's too bad because if there was more focus on the story rather than will smith just doing his 'thing , ' this film might have been palatable . 
as it turns out , " wild wild west " is the wild , wild worst and receives my vote for biggest disappointment of the year . 
synopsis : two con artists find the perfect patsy in harry ( woody harrelson ) - - an inept former journalist who trips and bumps his head into a post , tries to slap a girl and gets poked in the eye , has ill-timed fits of coughing , and fails at everything he does . 
the story is told from harry's point of view . 
harry always carries around a shot of whiskey although he swears he doesn't drink . 
one day harry is approached by the con girl rhea ( elisabeth shue ) , who is similar to harry in that she carries around a cigarette but swears she doesn't smoke . 
seduced , harry agrees to participate in a money-making scheme involving faking the kidnapping of odette ( chloe sevigny ) , the teenage daughter of a rich man . 
turns out , it's all part of a needless , very puzzling , extremely elaborate and convoluted scheme ( it involves hiring special impersonators ) by two cons in order to fool harry , a hero who barely has the intellectual capacity of a wooden post . 
when the 'kidnapped' odette is found dead , the clues point to harry as the kidnapper/murderer , and the police are hot on harry's trail . 
harry suddenly realizes he has been framed while others have taken the ransom money . 
can he get out of this mess ? 
opinion : palmetto is a long , uninteresting film with all the wrong feel . 
hero harry is an inept bungler who trips up often and consistently overestimates his own intelligence . 
this farcical kind of character works best in an entertaining naked gun action comedy or dragnet spoof . 
but palmetto is played like a dark , serious , detective noir drama , and watching harry's bumbling confidence amounts to an irritating distraction . 
there's a lapse in concentration in the middle of the movie as the camera goes wild on breasts , buttocks , short skirts , colored painted nails , and women's legs . 
even when the focus is supposedly on harry and his dilema , you can always notice the side of elizabeth shue's breast forming a prominent foreground . 
towards the end , palmetto re-focuses on plot for the grand finale - - a confusing explanation involving impersonators , with woody harrelson handcuffed and suspended over a tub of acid as he hears the criminals' confession . 
if you can imagine 'shemp' from the three stooges playing the detective hero of an hbo 'lingerie suspense' thriller , that's how out of synch this movie feels . 
starring arnold schwarzenegger ; danny devito ; emma thompson & frank langella the only thing that you can say about junior is that it is a disappointment , and a big one at that . 
junior brings together arnold schwarzenegger and danny devito with director ivan reitman . 
these are the same men that brought us the very funny twins . 
so foolish me , i was hoping for something that would at least come close to the level of quality of twins . 
so much for hopes . 
schwarzenegger and devito play two scientists ( doctors hesse and arbogast ) who are working on a new drug that will reduce the possibility of miscarriage in pregnancy . 
unfortunately , due to circumstances beyond their control , they are denied permission to test this new drug on humans , and subsequently lose their funding . 
still believing that their drug will work , they decide to test it anyway , on hesse . 
so , dr . hesse ( schwarzenegger ) artificially inseminates himself and begins taking the drug . 
their theory is that if the drug can prevent a man from miscarrying , surely it will work on a woman . 
does the thought of arnold schwarzenegger pregnant sound funny or humorous to you ? 
well , it must have to the producers of junior . 
admittedly , schwarzenegger has the comedic talent to pull it off . 
perhaps if it had been done differently it might have actually been funny . 
but it wasn't , schwarzenegger pregnant is goofy at best . 
the sight of schwarzenegger running around going through the hormone imbalances that come with pregnancy , and the accompanying emotional swings , is not funny . 
schwarzenegger comes very close to embarrassing himself with these antics . 
i kept thinking to myself , with the time arnold wasted making this turkey he could have been making an action picture . 
better yet , with schwarzenegger , devito and reitman all in the same place at the same time , why didn't they make a sequel to twins ? 
anything would have been better than this mess . 
danny devito is wasted in this movie . 
his part could have been played by any joker they pulled in off the street . 
 ( after seeing the movie , if i was devito , i probably would have wished they had pulled someone in off the street . ) 
emma thompson is wasted here as well . 
while thompson is best known for her jane austin adaptations , she is also a fine comedian . 
too bad she didn't get to use any of that talent here . 
am i being too hard on this film ? 
i don't think so . 
schwarzenegger and devito are two of my favorite actors in film today , and ivan reitman is one of the more talented directors in hollywood . 
with a supporting cast of emma thompson and frank langella , the filmmakers really have to be trying hard to make a bad film . 
they certainly managed here . 
maybe it was well intentioned , but unfortunately this is a movie that never should have been made . 
if you are tempted to see this film , do yourself a favor and go rent twins , a film that truly takes advantage of arnold schwarzenegger and danny devito's comedic talents . 
there are scenes in " the big hit " that are so awful , they simply defy description . 
the movie is infected with the same kind of blunderheaded idiocy and misplaced confidence that made " last action hero " ( 1993 ) such a chore to sit through . 
presumably , " the big hit " is an action-comedy , a difficult but not impossible genre to pull off . 
movies of this sort require a fine balance and careful tone , and the comedy is usually meant to work as catharsis for the violence . 
 " lethal weapon 2 " ( 1989 ) is a perfect example of an action thriller that was also very , very funny . 
unfortunately , in " the big hit , " it seems that comedy is the main motive , and the violence is only intended to punctuate the laughs . 
unfortunately , there are no laughs . 
the movie resembles some of the goofy , throwaway ridiculousness of early jackie chan films , but it doesn't benefit from chan's incredible stunts and goofy , charismatic presence . 
instead , we are left with a lot of digital effects and mark wahlberg , who must have considered himself invincible after his critically-acclaimed performance in last year's " boogie nights . " 
however , if he wants to maintain a decent career , he had better start selecting his projects more carefully - movies like this are a sure-fire recipe for a long career in the straight-to-video market . 
wahlberg plays melvin smiley , an amiable guy who also happens to be a professional hitman ( see " grosse pointe blank " for the same character , much better developed ) . 
the movie wants us to think , " gee how clever and ironic - a guy who can kill without any moral implications , and yet he can't stand for anyone not to like him . " 
the fact is , melvin is so desperate to keep people from not liking him , that he puts up with both an obnoxious fiancee ( christina applegate , with a horrendous new york accent ) and an abusive girlfriend ( lela rochon ) who is only using him for his money . 
his constant bending over backwards to please people makes him a complete patsy at best , and a thoroughly unbelievable character at worst . 
melvin is employed exclusively by a crime boss named paris ( avery brooks ) as part of a team of hitmen , which also includes cisco ( lou diamond phillips ) and crunch ( bokeem woodbine ) . 
one day , melvin agrees to do some moonlighting with cisco by kidnapping the teenage daughter of a rich japanese mogul named jiro nishi ( sab shimono ) for a million dollar ransom . 
however , not only has jiro nishi lost all his money producing a big hollywood movie ( inside joke , get it ? ) , but his kidnapped daughter , keiko ( china chow ) , also happens to be paris' goddaughter . 
so , when paris finds out she's been kidnapped , he takes it personally and becomes determined to find out who did it . 
not knowing the cisco is actually behind the whole scheme , paris puts him in charge of rooting out the kidnapper . 
of course cisco blames the whole thing on poor , innocent melvin . 
along the way , there are several obligatory gunfights , explosions , and car chases , plus a literal cliffhanger inspired by " jurassic park , " and a completely unconvincing romance between melvin and keiko ( who looks like she's barely pushing fifteen ) . 
what the movie passes off as humor resorts to thoroughly unfunny jokes about overweight jewish mothers , hara-kiri , drinking problems , leaking body bags , and a running gag about how crunch has recently discovered the pleasures of masturbation , and now spends all his time doing hand exercises . 
not to mention the pimply video store clerk who is always calling melvin and screeching about how he needs to return his copy of " king kong lives , " which is two weeks overdue . 
this mess of a movie was helmed by che-kirk wong , the latest hong kong director imported by john woo ( " face/off " ) , who also served as executive producer . 
woo needs to stop acting as a conduit for other directors , and start making more of his own films . 
wong , who directed such films as " rock'n'roll cop " back in hong kong , is completely tone deaf when it comes to comedy . 
maybe jokes about vexatious video clerks and vomiting on other people are funny across the ocean , but they're not here , at least in the manner wong handles them . 
many of the problems can be traced back to the script , which was penned by obvious freshman writer ben ramsey . 
in addition to his vague characterizations and uninspired action sequences , ramsey's script assaults the audience with his attempts to copy the vulgar , poetic rhythms of tarantino or mamet-style dialogue . 
what he comes out with is just a lot of annoying blather , most of which spews from the lips of lou diamond phillips ( whose favorite phrase is " it's all love " ) and robin dunne , who plays cisco's stuttering , black-wannabe assistant . 
the irritation factor of phillips and dunne combined is almost off the scale , which can pretty much describe the film as a whole . 
well i guess it's that time of the year again . 
the one time of the year where movie craftors are exonerated from the need to even * try * writing a script that has more dialogue than explosions . 
it's also the best time for the handful of existing bigtime hollywood mr action heroes to dust off their miniscule vocabularies , pull on their black vests and charge onto our screens tersely expirating what they hope will become memorable catchphrases . 
in america they call this time " summer " and it happens once every year . 
and maybe it's the exposure to all that nasty sun that does it , but in the process normally weak , insipid lines like " consider this a divorce , " " hasta la vista , baby , " and " you're the disease . 
i'm the cure " actually do end up being repeated more often then the phrases from my book of biblical proverbs . 
this is not entirely a bad thing , of course . 
what am i talking about ? 
i'm talking about the summer " blockbusters , " the " action thrillers , " the " this-obviously-cost-a-lot-so-you-know- everyone's-going-to-go " explosions , gas threats , flying saucers , and special effects . 
in the rash of " my , what big guns you have , but wait ! 
mine are bigger " movies , there are also the usual boy-meets-fish-and-saves-environment movies ( or whale , whatever ) , and * this * year , the odd crop of " save-the-world-from-aliens-or-environment- threats " offerings . 
i'm talking about the three batmans , the speeds , the terminators , etc . this year i'm talking about twister , independence day , the arrival , the rock , mission : impossible , and of course , eraser . 
here in singapore , as our local movie critics like to whine , we seem to get the pick of the crop of " my explosion is more real-looking than yours " movies , but nothing else . 
mission : impossible opened in our theatres almost as soon as it did in the us . 
the same goes for eraser , which is unfortunate for arnold schwarzenegger because coming so soon after what time magazine recently called " mission : unavoidable " ( on account of its worldwide mega-advertising blitz ) , eraser seems like a cheaper , less thoughtful imitation . 
that's saying a lot , because mi the movie was already a cheap , thoughtless imitation of its tv originator of the '60s/'70s . 
in eraser , arnie is a us federal marshall who relocates trial witnesses whose testimonies place their lives in danger . 
he does this by destroying all evidence of their present existence and re-situating them with new identities . 
his new case is lee cullen , played by vanessa williams who , unlike all the other scumbags he's ever relocated , is " an actual , real life honest person . " 
because she's so good , and has such nice legs , arnold spends the whole movie trying to protect her , and only uses the opening movie sequence to save robert pastorelli from * his * killers . 
lee obtains evidence that the high-technology weapons company she works for is secretly selling sophisticated , black-market arms to people with foreign accents and stringy hair . 
of course , as the formula goes , her revealing this information will destroy the system as we know it because heck , there are people in high places who will go down with this , because yes , this is the biggest conspiracy in the history of the world ( that is , america ) since watergate . 
in protecting lee , arnold is framed by the mentor-turned-evil robert deguerin , nicely played by james caan , and ends up having to prove that he isn't the one killing the programme's witnesses in addition to making sure lee isn't accidentally torpedo-ed to death by the new , green guns his enemies all have . 
it's around this time that people in the theatre with me starting humming the mission : impossible theme , because arnie's mission includes breaking into a high-security building to run a disk . 
i guess i should tell you more about the particular gun everyone in this movie is so antsy about . 
it's an electro-magnetic pulse gun thing which fires aluminium missiles , and which can see through walls . 
it has some sort of x-ray vision , so its user can target the victim's heart even from great distances . 
despite this , which i figure is a pretty cool feature in a gun ( though i'm certainly no expert ) , however , arnold , whose own heart is targeted a number of times , * never * goes flying 10 feet backwards with a two-foot missile through his chest like all the others who get shot by this gun . 
instead he outruns and outsmarts his trackers each time , giving eery and ironic resonance to that terminator line that practically made him famous : " i'll be back . " 
like everyone else in the theater , i left the movie feeling that the trailers had duped me , because they made me want to watch this movie voluntarily . 
although there is a * lot * of violence in this movie , not to mention mutilation and some bloody tussles with alligators , i recommend this movie to most over-18s who need some therapeutic mindless action to get over the weirdness of fargo or the hangover effect of leaving las vegas . 
review's rating system : * wait for the video . 
 * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha ! 
 * * * pretty good , bring a friend . 
 * * * * amazing , potent stuff . 
 * * * * * perfection . 
see it twice . 
the rapid-fire formula that worked so well in airplane ! , the " police squad ! " 
television series , top secret ! , three naked gun films , and two hot shots ! 
movies has finally reached a desperate dead-end with spy hard . 
even ezio gregio's the silence of the hams is arguably funnier than this over-extended spy- and action-movie spoof . 
leslie nielsen stars as secret agent wd-40 , who returns from retirement to battle his old nemesis , general rancor ( a cackling andy griffith ) . 
the jokes fly in every direction and with hardly a hint of restraint , timing , or tact . 
most the movie is comprised of recycled airplane and naked gun gags , recreated movie sequences , and soggy star cameos . 
yeah , maybe we * do * need ray charles driving an l . a . bus bound for a speed bump , but did mr . t , hulk hogan , and dr . joyce brothers also have to appear in the same movie ? 
leslie nielsen plays it straight with his usual dopey flair . 
there is something oddly inspiring about the sight of nielsen wearing a nun's habit , even the resulting sister act spoof is silly . 
as are the bits directly lifted from home alone , pulp fiction , true lies , etc . etc . ( adolescent males might enjoy this mess , tho . 
the butt shots , breast peeks , penis pokes , flatulence gags , and related innuendo are right up beavis and butthead's alley . ) 
beyond the hilarious title sequence with " weird " al yankovich performing the theme song , spy hard is barely the stock that it's printed on . 
my recommendation : duck in while you're waiting for another movie to start . 
stay long enough to see the camera dart inside of weird al's nostril and then leave . 
you won't miss a thing . 
tim burton has now completed his evolution from the brilliant director of macabre stories about outcast individuals yearning for acceptance , and into a studio monkey whose name is used as part of multi-tiered marketing materials for crap movies . 
and here he hits rock bottom , with planet of the apes . 
i didn't expect much from this latest " interpretation " of pierre boulle's classic novel planet of the apes . 
i mean , how could you top the force and impact of the original film , intelligently co-scripted by rod serling ( of twilight zone fame ) combined with the overbearing chuck heston growling and yelling at those " damn dirty apes , " in one of his best roles of his career ? 
sadly , i sat down to watch burton's version of planet of the apes and within the first 20 minutes , i was checking my watch and my girlfriend ( a big fan of the original film ) started to nod off . 
this time around , the story plays out like a cross between enemy mine , braveheart , and project x . marky mark wahlberg , who was enjoyable in boogie nights and the corrupter , plays leo davidson , a hot shot u . s . air force pilot . 
leo and his crew are in search of some mysterious magnetic storms ( no real explanation given in the film ) and leo sends one of his genetically altered " smart " chimps into the storms to collect data . 
leo and his crew lose communication with the chimp , leo hops in another ship to find the monkey , and then he's thrown through some type of time-space wormhole which crashes lands on the twentieth century fox studio backlot , all mocked up to look like the amazon jungle . 
leo ends up getting captured by a group of talking apes and is sold to a slave trader named limbo ( paul giamatti ) who in turn sells leo to a chimpanzee named ari ( helena bonham carter ) . 
the kind ari then helps leo and his fellow humans escape to the mountains to find leo's ship . 
along the way , monkeys played by tim roth ( overacting his role of a vicious general named thade ) and michael clarke duncan ( who further enhances his career by playing another heavy in a bad action movie ) strive out to hunt down leo and his band of human savages , just like battlefield earth ! 
in the end , it all culminates into another braveheart rip-off human versus ape battle scene . 
while rick baker's makeup work is amazing , the script is a pathetic hodgepodge ( courtesy of three writers ) , the acting is horrible , and the " surprise " ending feels like a swing from a ball-peen hammer into the temple . 
wahlberg does not have the physical or mental presence of a chuck heston to carry the film or any of its action sequences . 
this remake , or re-interpretation , as tim burton has proclaimed it , is an insult to the intelligence and wit of the original film . 
the ethical arguments about the equality of species , fascism , and military buildup have been replaced by tremendous amounts of ridiculous dialogue , an unimaginative narrative structure , and a romance between a monkey and a human . 
even chuck heston's anti-gun tirade ( in the de rigeur cameo ) seems shallow and jokey . 
but the main element missing from this tim burton film is tim burton . 
even though his name is plastered across every billboard in america , john badham could have directed this film . 
even joel schumacher could have directed this film . 
he probably should have . 
burton's predominant themes of rejection , isolation , and the search for one's place in the universe , as seen in ed wood , edward scissorshands , and pee-wee's big adventure , are completely absent in this planet . 
i suppose that's what happen when a great director gets sucked through a wormhole . 
the premise of this movie is , well , pretty far-fetched . 
tom berenger plays shale , a mercenary who is temporarily out of work ( those fools at the cia have denied his existence just because he and his buddies botched a job in cuba ) . 
fortunately , his girl friend ( diane venora ) , a teacher at christopher columbus high school in miami , gets her knee cap broken by a disgruntled student , creating a job opening for shale as a substitute teacher . 
not telling his girl friend , who might object on pedagogical grounds , he creates a number of fake higher degrees for himself ( from yale , harvard , princeton , et al ) and begins his tenure as a high school teacher . 
the students ( junkies , drug dealers , gang members , sleazy sluts , ice-pick wielders . . . you 
get the picture ) don't really take to him right away , so he hits one in the face with a can and breaks a few fingers . 
this gets their attention to a certain extent , so he tells them the story of the vietnam war : " see , some homeboys from the north tried to muscle in on the turf of the homeboys from the south . " 
oh yeah , now they can dig it ; the problem is just that nobody ever explained it properly before . 
but wait ! 
there are drugs being dealt in the school itself ! 
and behind the whole scheme , in cahoots with the head gang , the kod ( no , not " cod " , but " knights of destruction " . . . really ! ) , is none other than . . . the 
upright , ex-cop principal , played by the forgotten ghostbuster , ernie hudson ! 
so shale does what any good teacher would do . 
he gets his buddies together , they gather together a bunch of bazookas and other major weapons , explosives , and cool stuff like that , and they have a big showdown against the drug dealers and kod at the high school . 
ok , so the premise is not just far-fetched , it's downright dumb . 
if this were a hong kong action comedy , we might just accept it , but it takes itself far too seriously to be truly fun . 
oh , it has its moments ; how one can truly hate a movie in which huge ( really huge ) amounts of cocaine are delivered in school busses ? 
and to be fair , it is almost never really boring , as the action is interrupted by only short sequences of actual story . 
but over all , this is pretty much a made-for-tv movie with more ( and bigger ) explosions and more foul language . 
in fact , it reminded me of " miami vice " without the production values , babes in skimpy bikinis , and pastels . 
if you can sneak into the theater without paying , go for it . 
otherwise , wait for video . 
the flying inkpot rating system : * wait for the tv2 broadcast . 
 * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha ! 
 * * * pretty good , bring a friend . 
 * * * * amazing , potent stuff . 
 * * * * * perfection . 
see it twice . 
chris tucker is one of those guys you immediately get a reaction from -- you either find his helium voice , crazy eyes and jerky mannerisms funny or annoying . 
i think i fall into the former category ( i'm one of the few who thought his turn in " the fifth element " as a prancing , prince-like deejay was complete inspired lunacy and not the least bit aggravating ) , but his new vehicle " money talks " just doesn't do him service . 
tucker is good in the movie -- and this is the kind of film that , if people see it , could make him a big star -- but he's also really the only thing good about the movie . 
in fact , if you see " money talks , " it should shock you beyond recognition that two of " toy story " 's writers penned the sloppy script . 
tucker's role here is that of franklin hatchett , a petty los angeles con artist whose carwash scams get him dogged by investigative reporter james russell ( charlie sheen ) . 
after being busted on the job for some illegal business involving counterfeit passports , franklin finds himself on a bus to the county jail and handcuffed to slick international jewel smuggler raymond villard ( gerard ismael ) . 
but villard's thugs blow up the bus in an attempt to free their leader ( never mind that the explosion could have instead killed him ) , and because he and franklin are joined at the wrist , franklin is allowed to escape as well , but not before overhearing some important information regarding a diamond stash that -- for some reason or another -- is being hidden in a vintage roadster waiting to be auctioned off at an upcoming auto expo . 
the local media mistakenly puts the prison break-out blame on franklin , which is where james comes back into the picture . 
he makes a deal to protect franklin if , in turn , franklin gives him an exclusive interview . 
this means james must present his new " friend " in the stickiest of situations -- a formal dinner party for he and fiancee grace ( heather locklear ) , also attended by her uber-rich parents ( veronica cartwright and nicely game paul sorvino ) . 
and of course the bad guys track franklin down and try to knock him off , all the while he spars and forms an unlikely bond with james . 
 " this ain't no buddy movie , " claim the print ads . 
yeah , right . 
actually , for the better part of , oh , 20 minutes , it appears " money talks " has the momentum to cover entertaining ground , and this is mostly due to the presence of spastic motormouth tucker . 
this is tucker's first leading role , and if you imagine a slightly lankier , african-american jim carrey with a reliance on wild r-rated raunch rather than pg-13 physical comedy , you have a good idea of the conviction with which he assaults the role . 
but you realize all too quickly that tucker's overstated liveliness is the only thing " money talks " has going for it . 
and a lively actor alone does not a successful movie make . 
it's all too easy to pick out everything wrong with " money talks . " 
the plot is recycled buddy-buddy comedy-thriller tripe that seemed overused even when " nothing to lose " employed it last month . 
everything is paint-by-numbers , especially the los angeles coliseum finale , which finds not one , not two , but three separate enemy factions firing at franklin as they pursue him through the bleachers . 
the villains , as many as there are , are dull . 
certain story elements are too coincidental . 
and too much of the film's dramatic agenda is played too straight . 
a scene where grace confronts james after learning franklin's true identity ( " you brought a killer into my parents' house ! " ) 
is extremely silly . 
you get the picture . 
obviously , i did not have a pleasant experience at " money talks . " 
but the people around me appeared to be having a rip-roaring good time ( one gentleman several rows behind me chortled with such expressive conviction i began fearing for his health ) . 
but tucker , at least for me , is a pretty funny guy , and aces the movie's best scene , where franklin passes himself off as vic damone's son at james and grace's engagement bash and toasts the couple with barry white lyrics . 
tucker's audience -- and he does have one -- will probably like " money talks . " 
those who he irritates , however , will have a more productive day staying home and scraping the gook out from under their toenails . 
 " soldier " , by director paul anderson , is a film in which any presence of originality is fleeting . 
the best moments of the film are in the opning scenes where kurt russel's character todd is shown growing up under strict military supervision . 
brutality through the eyes of the innocent and stripped of it every single day growing up is something that has a lot of emotional potential power behind it , and the opening scenes tap into it a little . 
then it goes nowhere with that idea . 
there is perhaps one rather fleeting scene afterwards that deals with the potential trauma of this dehumanization , and the rest of the film is just some of the biggest action movie cliches i've ever seen . 
the whole idea of the inhuman , soldier-type character gaining some degree of humanity by defending a potential female love interest and family from his evil counterpart out to kill her is done , and it's been done much better . 
i was able to predict the plot of the _whole_ story , which wouldn't be so bad if other aspect of the film somewhat interesting . 
between the action sequences , it tries to deal with the aforementioned issues of humanity through the performance of mr . russel in the film and the tiny little window to his soul that is his eyes , since his dialog is extremely limited . 
his performance in that way isn't all that bad , but certainly is not enough to carry this film . 
other performances in this film are really not worth much mention at all , and they generally are about as weak as their characters . 
but enough of this stuff about plot and character , right ? 
isn't the most important part of an action film , well , the action ? 
even in this aspect the film is a disappointment . 
in mortal kombat ( 1995 ) , director paul anderson proved that truly engaging use and choreography of action in a film can override problems with plot and produce something entertaining . 
however , he fails to repeat that in this film . 
the combat scenes , particularly the big one at the end , is incredibly unimaginatve . 
fighting and combat scenes are supposed to bring about thrills in this type of movie , a point which even an otherwise unimpressive film like starship troopers seemed to realize . 
but instead of reaching for something truly interesting to end the film with , it goes for the old , shoot-em up , one guy vs . an army type of cinema that i thought died with the military action films of the 80s . 
if the film went with some of the ideas it opened up with the introduction more seriously , it could have been a rather engaging science fiction film . 
however , it utterly failed to go in any new directions after that , making the film a big disappointment . 
the first scene of operation condor has jackie chan preparing for a secret mission . 
he attempts to pop a couple of pieces of chewing gum into his mouth , but misses . 
after they ricochet off his face , he says , " not a good start . " 
as it turns out , this line not only gives foreshadowing to the opening sequence , but to the rest of the movie as well . 
in this , the latest of the jackie chan movies to be released in america after first runs in hong kong , chan plays an international operative codenamed " condor " , and is tasked by the united nations with finding a stash of gold hidden at a secret base by the nazi's during their retreat across the saharan desert during the second world war . 
for some reason , condor is given his mission at the u . s . embassy in spain . 
i think this may have been done so that in a chase scene , they could honor the time old tradition of knocking over a fruit cart . 
watch for it in any chase scene set in a foreign country , most notably in europe . 
the chase will take itself through a marketplace , and a fruit cart will be overturned . 
it's almost a guarantee . 
anyway . . . . 
condor is given a key which is supposed to unlock a giant vault in which the gold is hidden ; the problem is that the key has insulators integrated into it , which may mean a booby trap might be electronically triggered if the key is used improperly . 
to help him figure out where the gold is hidden and how to use the key correctly , condor is accompanied by a desert expert ( carol cheng ) and the granddaughter of the captain who was in charge of hiding the gold ( eva cobo ) . 
there aren't supposed to be any relatives of the nazi captain living in spain , but condor finds the granddaughter by looking her up in the phone book or something . 
although these two women are supposed to be integral parts of the mission , they prove no help at all except to get in trouble and provide an excuse for chan to jump into his martial arts . 
in fact , most of the scenes are so ridiculously contrived that it seems everything is just a way to set up a fight . 
i suppose this isn't so bad , since chan's action is really the best part of the movie , and the only reason you go to see one of his films anyway . 
if you've never seen a jackie chan movie , don't expect a great plot , but do expect to be entertained by his moves . 
they are so well choreographed and often so amazing that you wonder if this guy is human . 
knowing that he does his own stunts , and knowing that this is the real stuff ( no computer-masked bungee cords here ) makes the action sequences all the more exciting . 
you've got to hand it to a guy who's probably broken every bone in his body for the sake of his art . 
also of note in this , as in any jackie chan movie , is the humor . 
as far as i know , none of his films take themselves too seriously , and even the dramatic parts have a certain tongue-in-cheek quality about them . 
what is almost masterful is the way that humor is even integrated into the fight scenes . 
unlike a martial arts film such as anything with jean claude van damme , where the fights get you on the visceral level , fight scenes in chan's movies are simply entertaining . 
you marvel at both his moves and at the way he employs them in such a way to make you laugh . 
unfortunately , even chan's mastery can't save this film . 
the plot and characters are so weak that they don't hold the movie together at all , and the acting is terrible . 
carol cheng has apparently won best actress honors at the hong kong movie awards in the past , but since operation condor is a dubbed movie it kind of takes all bets off . 
this , combined with an obviously low production value made we want to turn away from the screen until i heard those kicks start flying . 
cashing in on the success of white men can't jump and the failure of most of their solo vehicles ( including the cowboy way and drop zone ) , wesley snipes and woody harrelson have reteamed , hoping that they can strike up the same success . 
sadly , if this dismal , cliche ridden and mind-numbingly boring action pic is anything to go by , they haven't got a chance in hell of even coming close . 
this time out , the duo play foster brothers who are transit cops . 
following several run-ins with their tyrannical boss ( robert blake ) , who is obsessed with the " money train " --a train which carries all the subway's takings--and will let nothing stop it ( now * there's * an original plot device ) , harrelson's character decides to try and take off with the cash . 
along the way , both of them fall in love with the same woman--another transit cop who also hates her boss . 
this leads to the typical sibling rivalry crap that you usually find in a film of this standard ( 'you were always the better brother' etc . etc . etc . ) , and doesn't help to add anything to the film . 
given a better script , better performers in supporting roles and a shorter running time ( the film almost went for two hours--or did it just feel like it ? ) , this film might ( and i mean * might * ) have turned out okay , but as it is , it is stocked with the worst action film cliches , whose only purpose appears to be to pad the film out to its painfully long running time . 
robert blake , who plays the evil boss , has got to be the most pathetic bad guy in film history ! 
he sounds like wayne newton , and appears to think the best way to appear evil is to have your eyes bulging as though they are about to burst out of their sockets ! 
but this is only one of money train's problems . 
if you look at the script as if it was an action film , it lacks originality and suspense . 
but if you try to look at it as if it were a heist film , it is even worse . 
the final robbery sequence is almost trivialised and the characters definitely ain't butch and sundance . 
the film isn't all bad though . 
snipes and harrelson , when they aren't using the dumb cliches that the script gives them , make an agreeable duo , and some of the stunt-work is indeed excellent . 
but good stunt-work cannot save a bottom-of-the-barrel action movie . 
if you're a really undemanding action freak , there's a chance you'll like this . 
but if you're looking for something original , or suspenseful , try somewhere else--i doubt you'll find it here . 
girl 6 is , in a word , a mess . 
i was never able to determine what spike lee was trying to accomplish with this film . 
there was no sense of where the film was going , or any kind of coherent narrative . 
if there was a point to the film , i missed it . 
girl 6 , by the way , is the way theresa randle's character is addressed in the phone sex workplace ; all the girls are known by their numbers . 
the plot , such as it is : theresa randle is a struggling n . y . actress , and eventually takes a job as a phone-sex operator . 
she begins to lose contact with reality , as her job consumes her . 
also , she must deal with the advances of her ex-husband ( isiah washington ) . 
he is an ex- con thief , and she tries to keep him away , while at the same time , it's clear that she still harbors feelings for him . 
her neighbor , jimmy ( spike lee ) functions as the observer ; mediating between the ex- husband and girl 6 . 
he also functions as a point of stability , as he watches her become seduced by the lurid world of phone sex . 
the soundtrack , consisting of songs by prince , was jarring . 
it kept taking my attention from the film - not altogether a bad thing , i'll grant you , as what was transpiring onscreen wasn't that riveting . 
for parts of the middle of the film , the music stayed blissfully in the background . 
in the opening sequence and one scene later in the film , however , the music was particularly loud and distracting . 
of course , i've never really cared for prince's ( or tafkap if you like ) music . 
prince fans might love the soundtrack , but it will probably be distracting , even to die-hard fans . 
of the performances , the only one that stood out was spike lee's buddy character , jimmy . 
he was excellent as the always-broke neighbor of girl 6 . 
he should have stuck to acting in this film . 
there are several sequences that gave me the impression that he'd like to be oliver stone when he grows up . 
there are scenes shot with different types of film , which are purposely grainy , and reminiscent of some of the scenes in oliver stone's natural born killers . 
in that film , they worked to propel the narrative . 
in this film , they just made me more confused . 
there are some amusing moments , and a few insights into the lives of the women who use their voices to make the phone-sex industry the multi-billion dollar industry that it has become . 
other than that , though , nothing much happens . 
there are a few intense moments , as when one caller becomes frightening , but even that is rather lackluster . 
i'm not the biggest fan of spike lee , though i'd agree that he has done some very good work in the past . 
in girl 6 , though , he seems to be floundering . 
he had an interesting idea , a fairly good setup , and seemed to wander aimlessly from there . 
girl 6 earns a grade of d . 
back in 1980s , chuck norris used to be synonym for the action films . 
he couldn't , of course , top the success and fame of big action names like sylvester stallone or arnold schwarzenegger , but sheer quantity of his films guaranteed that he was household name among shoot'em up and beat'em up genre aficionados . 
that quantity was mostly provided by cannon group , prolific production company that dominated the b-movie market in previous decade by flooding it with cheap , formulaic and , more often than not , unwatchable genre products . 
the hitman , 1991 action thriller directed by chuck's brother aaron , is one of the last among them . 
chuck norris here plays seattle cop betrayed , shot and left for dead by his partner ( which shouldn't surprise anyone , considering the fact that the partner is being played by michael parks , specialised for roles of usually very mean characters ) . 
surviving the shooting , cop is pronounced dead and hired as deep undercover agent . 
he infiltrates the underworld circles in seattle and becomes their top hitman , using his abilities to start brutal war between three major crime organisations - italians , french canadians and iranians . 
since it is rather absurd to expect great acting ability from chuck norris , at least not in this kind of movie , the biggest attraction of this film should have been action . 
well , the action in this film falls flat - it is boring , repetitive and not at all exciting . 
it is nothing more than monotonous series of scenes that contains violence too brutal even for this type of films . 
we know very little about norris' character while , on the other hand , gangsters are portrayed with more human dimension . 
in the end we almost feel sorry for them , since they are shown totally powerless against norris and his unstoppable and bloody crusade . 
during the film , somebody obviously became aware of that problem , so the screenwriter introduced the subplot dealing with the black boy who gets adopted by norris . 
that caused another problem - any questions about nature of that relationship had to be quashed with another subplot - this one dealing with lady lawyer who sleeps with the hero and gets killed after fulfilling that screenplay obligation . 
the photography in this film is dark , setting is depressive and this forgettable piece of 1980s style cinema leaves viewers without any reason to justify the hour and half spent in watching it . 
as forgetful as some people may be it is doubtful that anyone could forget their wedding , especially three times . 
but , alas professor brainard somehow manages to accomplish this feat twice before the momentous night that he actually creates flubber . 
it's amazing that he is able to remember any of the processes he uses to make anything . 
the whole point here is how could a man be so blatantly forgetful . 
this is not absent minded this is almost mindless and he is a professor . 
well , this is the case for about the first half of the movie then things begin to settle into what might truly be considered absent minded . 
along the way to becoming absent minded from absent of mind the professor stumbles onto flubber . 
thankfully or there would be no movie or any amusement for the audience . 
the flubber is supposed to be flying rubber , but it seems to have a life of its own . 
this is there strictly for the kids . 
the properties of the flubber provide some antics for the audience when flubber coated golfballs and bowling balls assail two would be thugs . 
although amusing this is not original what so ever and brings back haunting memories of home alone . 
the poor professor has to save the university where he teaches at , get his fiancee back , finally stop the plotting of an evil millionaire , and do all this in the funniest way possible . 
admittedly there are funny moments but the movie is rather shallow and does not compare very well to the original ( the absent minded professor ) . 
the whole scene with the basketball game was just atrocious and totally unbelievable . 
the basketball players , stereotypically unqualified for the sport , somehow manage to bounce , fly and dribble their way back to being close to winning ? 
this just sounds too bad to be true , the least that could have been done was keep semi close to the original movie to give this film a chance . 
as for innovations and new ideas there is but two good ones in this movie . 
giving life to the flubber , which is so poorly executed that it's best forgotten , and prof . brainard's flying robot weebo . 
giving life to the flubber would have worked beautifully if it wasn't for scenes of the sort where you have the flubber dancing around on tables and books for no real reason other than to put in a bit of music and extend the length of the movie . 
the life of the flubber had brief and rather whimsical moments where it might have been used well , but it wasn't and in the end might have done the movie more harm than good . 
now , weebo is a totally different story . 
it's a robot that prof . brainard created but forgot how and gave something of a life too . 
this is a really original idea , well maybe not , but it is an idea that is well executed and in the end makes the poor robot the most developed and real character in the movie . 
yes folks the little yellow robot has more emotion and character than the characters . 
the film lacks the emotional punch to pull the audience in at all . 
the acting by robin williams ( prof . 
brainard ) seems to be half hearted for most of the movie and in many cases quite forced . 
most of the acting in the movie was so convincing as to fool only the part of the audience that had not quite yet reached the age to 12 . 
people when stood up at the altar , don't usually give third chances . 
or for that matter talk to the fiancee afterwards , but what can be expected this is a children's movie . 
flubber , as a movie does little original and is nothing special in any respect . 
with the best character in the movie being something of a prop i doubt that many people will find it all that great . 
it does have its amusing moments and it is a good story in the end , but it does not wash up to the original . 
kids should find this movie amusing and fun and they'll probably enjoy the whole movie . 
as a movie it's just a kids movie and not the best of ones at that . 
how do you judge a film that is so bad , but intentionally so ? 
in spiceworld , the highly popular singing group the spice girls accomplish their major goal : mocking themselves with a purposely cheezy film and having a lot of fun doing it . 
if that was their goal , they did a fantastic job . 
so is it fair to give it such a low grade when it wasn't really meant to be much better than this ? 
honestly , i'd rather see this film before many others i gave higher grades , so does that mean i graded it inaccurately ? 
truth be known , i don't really think i can answer this question . 
to understand spiceworld , you have to understand the spice girls . 
unless you're very * very * young , or fairly older , you probably have at least heard of them . 
they're a group of five busty british babes who've had #1 hit singles and whose debut album sold millions . 
they're primarily adored by pre-teen girls who hope someday the contents of their training bras might match those of ginger spice's ( real name : geri haliwell ) wonderbra . 
all five of the girls have these " spicy " names for which they are better known than their real names . 
there is the aforementioned ginger spice , as well as sporty spice ( melanie chisholm , or mel c . ) , scary spice ( melanie brown , or mel b . ) , baby spice ( emma bunton ) , and posh spice ( victoria addams ) , and all of them , to some degree or another , resemble their stage names . 
the spice girls took the world by storm , and spiceworld is actually a good- humored spoof of all that transpired during their quick rise to fame . 
it's quite nice to see what good sports the girls are ( and not just the one dubbed sporty ) about poking fun at themselves . 
they don't take themselves too seriously , and that's probably the best thing about them . 
it's also surprising how natural they seem in front of the camera * acting * , and not just singing and dancing . 
they're not flawless by any means , but for the most part , they deliver their lines without feeling staged , and , like them or not , we get the sense the five are very at home within their characters ( which seems reasonable since they portray themselves ) . 
what makes the film bad is that extreme fans of the spice girls won't get enough of their music , while the rest of us don't get enough of a movie . 
the real point of this is to look at the spice girls for over ninety straight minutes . 
most of the film is very blas ? , but several parts are downright boring , and then they have those sporadic moments that actually make us laugh out loud ! 
if you're a big fan of the group , you probably won't get enough of what you want , and if you're not a big fan , you get too much time devoted to nothing more than " look at us " moments . 
for the right crowd , the " music video " sequences will be the highlights of the film , but for others , they will serve as three-minute lulls in a hectic-but-overall-uneventful storyline . 
other key actors include richard e . grant as clifford , the spice girls' manager , alan cumming as the film-maker piers cutherton-smyth who attempts to make a documentary of the group , george wendt as martin barnfield , a producer who constantly works on pitching a spice girls movie , and roger moore in a small , self-parodizing role . 
all provide relatively good performances , keeping in mind once again that this film wasn't meant to be acted seriously . 
even meat loaf shows up as dennis the bus driver and seems to have fun with it . 
while this film is continuously compared to the beatles' a hard day's night , i think that is an unjust comparison . 
it is supposedly the movie studio that first mad the comparison by way of press kits , but i don't think drector bob spiers , nor the spice girls , intended it to be so . 
i think the studios were just trying to boost hype and interest in the film , and have instead , come off rather pretentious . 
i don't think this film is trying to be anything more than a fun , satirical look at a group that got so big , a movie seemed the next likely step . 
and what could've been better than a self-indulged yet self- mocking approach ? 
probably nothing , and so it is . 
spiceworld is a movie i thought would be embarrassing to enjoy , but now instead , i find myself wanting to defend a movie i didn't even give a good review . 
it's bad , but it succeeds in every way it intended . 
it gives the spice girls a chance to play while allowing all those obsessive fans out there to indulge in every brainless moment . 
perhaps the group is nothing more than a gimmick . 
if that's the case , the movie's gimmick is that it * is * such a gimmick ! 
you might be saying , " a spice girls movie ? 
come on ! " , but when it comes down to it , i think that's the point . 
we could paraphrase michelle pfieffer's character in dangerous minds and say that beyond rangoon starts with an " a . " 
that's fair enough . 
all movies , like all school children , should be given the benefit of the doubt . 
the chance to succeed . 
after all , we like to think that the right combination of talent and effort can do wonders . 
mountains can be moved , and good movies can be made . 
yeah right . 
children fail , as do films . 
as does director john boorman's latest . 
the success of beyond rangoon hinges on the believability of patricia arquette ( ed wood , true romance ) as the busty westerner-in-peril wandering about 1988 burma without a passport . 
though we can stomach the mild plot contrivances that get her there , it's a tougher task to overlook the actress . 
she's a lightweight . 
as the first scene ( with narration ! ) 
demonstrates , she doesn't have * nearly * enough range for the emotions that her character--a mother fleeing the memories of a murdered husband and son--is supposed to show . 
she may give a stronger performance than , say , keanu reeves in a walk in the clouds , by not by much . 
beyond rangoon is a very physically appealing film , thanks to the practiced craftsmanship of john boorman ( deliverance , excalibur , hope and glory ) . 
he keeps the narrative moving , no matter how muddy the story--or the heroine--gets . 
why he chose arquette remains a mystery , though . 
maybe he was thinking that the dramatic weight of the story would overcome any casting deficiencies . 
but even after an hour of half-stated political statements and murky mass killings , we * still * don't know enough of what's happening in this country to feel distressed for the characters or their situations . 
empty exoticism . 
the technical credits in beyond rangoon are a curious mix , combining lush jungle photography with bad blue-screen work . 
also odd is the obvious dubbing . 
done to make some of the foreign characters sound less foreign ? 
and , is it my mistake , or do the same extras keep reappearing as different soldiers ? ? 
doo doo doo doo . 
[ " twilight zone " theme , or opinion of movie . 
you be the judge . ] 
i think that saying that the x-files is one of this summer's most anticipated films is safe . 
for five years , " the x-files " television show has developed a dedicated fan culture , whose rabid devotion to the series rivals that of " star trek " fans . 
the premise of both the movie and the television series is two fbi agents who investigate the paranormal ; fox mulder ( david duchovny ) is the avid believer whose quest to find the truth about extraterrestrial life borders on the paranoid , and dana scully ( gillian anderson ) is the scientific skeptic trying to find a rational explanation to mulder's flights of fancy . 
outlining the plot of the x-files movie is virtually impossible , since to be general would result in confusion , yet to be specific would give too much away . 
nevertheless , i will try . 
 " the black ooze , " and extraterrestrial , virus-like substance is threatening earth . 
a " shadow government " is aware of this , but tries to cover-up the alien existence . 
mulder and scully know " the truth is out there , " and so try to expose both the invasion and the cover-up . 
there are three central questions i have heard asked about this movie : 1 . 
will those who don't watch the series be able to understand the movie ? 
yes . 
isolated as an individual text , the x-files can stand alone . 
they have given enough background for anyone , familiar with the show or not , to understand the movie . 
although some of the secondary characters' histories may confuse the uninitiated , those characters are not essential to the film . 
this is a major problem : they trot out token secondary characters from the series out for an appearance and then disappear just as quickly . 
why bring superintendent skinner into the picture in the first place , and then have him sat silently on an fbi internal affairs committee ? 
why bring in " the lone gunmen , " three computer geek conspiracy theorists , for an even briefer appearance ? 
these characters are recurrent on the series , and their appearance in the film was met with whoops from the audience ( suggesting their popularity among fans - actually most of the audience could pass for " the lone gunmen " ) . 
still , then they vanish just as quickly . 
2 . the television show never gives us any answers . 
will the movie actually explain some things ? 
yes . 
in the x-files we get a fairly complete history of " the black ooze , " what it is and what it wants . 
we finally get some understanding of the motivations behind the " shadow government . " 
there are even some subtle tie-ins with contemporary ufo-ology , including the " greys " and the roswell crash of 1947 . 
3 . is the movie any good ? 
no . the x-files is a dreadful movie and shows some fundamental problems with writer/creator chris carter's talents and the relationship between cinema and television . 
first off , the screenplay by series creator chris carter is sloppy and cliched . 
after approximately forty-five minutes ( the length of a television episode minus the commercials ) , the pace drops to a snail's crawl . 
not long after that point , when carter attempts to answer some questions we have had about the series , we wish he had not . 
the explanations are so trite and ridiculous that one would have preferred it had carter not explained quite so much . 
i am willing to suspend my disbelief a fair bit , but the absurdity carter wants me to swallow was just too much . 
breaking the suspension of disbelief destroys the movie - and listening to other fans leave the cinema , maybe the series too . 
the explanations are not only absurd , they are tired and unoriginal . 
the extraterrestrials breed and gestate like those from the alien series , and their craft looks like a leftover set piece from independence day . 
note that the alien movies , id4 , and the x-files are all from 20thcentury fox - a studio that is beginning to cannibalize itself i think . 
the x-files is noteworthy for being the only movie based on a television series to be produced while the series was still running . 
in comparing the movie and television series certain aspects of the respective media emerge . 
the avoidance of the series to answer the questions it raised annoyed and frustrated many people . 
however , i rather liked that about the series . 
television allows you to impose as much , or as little , meaning on a show as you want . 
it is the proverbial " blank screen " which we project our minds on . 
meaning on television is open and ambiguous ; it is the nature of the medium . 
cinema , on the other hand , is the opposite . 
it projects onto us the filmmakers mind . 
we can , in some films , fill the textual gaps ourselves , but that almost never happens in an american film . 
meaning , in cinema , needs to be self-contained and determined . 
so , when the x-files made that jump from small to big screen , carter needed to take into consideration the differences in the medium as well . 
he did not . 
by making explicit , what the television show left implicit , carter reveals the limits of his creativity and skill . 
when they say that " fans " make a tv show , it is not far from the truth . 
on television , fan culture must impose its meanings on the text because there is nothing there . 
how true that is when we see the " explicit " x-files - there is nothing there . 
the following was printed in the st . john's express , st . john's , newfoundland , canada . 
all views are the authors , but copyright is held by robinson-blackmore , 1998 . 
&nbsp ; 
movie review by mikel j . koven 
&nbsp ; i think that saying that the x-files is one of this summer's most anticipated films is safe . &nbsp ; 
for five years , " the x-files " television show has developed a dedicated fan culture , whose rabid devotion to the series rivals that of " star trek " fans . 
&nbsp ; the premise of both the movie and the television series is two fbi agents who investigate the paranormal ; fox mulder ( david duchovny ) is the avid believer whose quest to find the truth about extraterrestrial life borders on the paranoid , and dana scully ( gillian anderson ) is the scientific skeptic trying to find a rational explanation to mulder's flights of fancy . 
&nbsp ; outlining the plot of the x-files movie is virtually impossible , since to be general would result in confusion , yet to be specific would give too much away . &nbsp ; 
nevertheless , i will try . &nbsp ; 
 " the black ooze , " and extraterrestrial , virus-like substance is threatening earth . &nbsp ; 
a " shadow government " is aware of this , but tries to cover-up the alien existence . &nbsp ; 
mulder and scully know " the truth is out there , " and so try to expose both the invasion and the cover-up . 
&nbsp ; there are three central questions i have heard asked about this movie : &nbsp ; 1 . &nbsp ; 
will those who don't watch the series be able to understand the movie ? &nbsp ; 
yes . &nbsp ; 
isolated as an individual text , the x-files can stand alone . &nbsp ; 
they have given enough background for anyone , familiar with the show or not , to understand the movie . &nbsp ; 
although some of the secondary characters' histories may confuse the uninitiated , those characters are not essential to the film . &nbsp ; 
this is a major problem : they trot out token secondary characters from the series out for an appearance and then disappear just as quickly . 
&nbsp ; why bring superintendent skinner into the picture in the first place , and then have him sat silently on an fbi internal affairs committee ? &nbsp ; 
why bring in " the lone gunmen , " three computer geek conspiracy theorists , for an even briefer appearance ? &nbsp ; 
these characters are recurrent on the series , and their appearance in the film was met with whoops from the audience ( suggesting their popularity among fans - actually most of the audience could pass for " the lone gunmen " ) . &nbsp ; 
still , then they vanish just as quickly . 
&nbsp ; 2 . &nbsp ; 
the television show never gives us any answers . &nbsp ; 
will the movie actually explain some things ? &nbsp ; 
yes . &nbsp ; 
in the x-files we get a fairly complete history of " the black ooze , " what it is and what it wants . &nbsp ; 
we finally get some understanding of the motivations behind the " shadow government . " &nbsp ; 
there are even some subtle tie-ins with contemporary ufo-ology , including the " greys " and the roswell crash of 1947 . 
&nbsp ; 3 . &nbsp ; 
is the movie any good ? &nbsp ; 
no . &nbsp ; the x-files is a dreadful movie and shows some fundamental problems with writer/creator chris carter's talents and the relationship between cinema and television . 
&nbsp ; first off , the screenplay by series creator chris carter is sloppy and cliched . &nbsp ; 
after approximately forty-five minutes ( the length of a television episode minus the commercials ) , the pace drops to a snail's crawl . &nbsp ; 
not long after that point , when carter attempts to answer some questions we have had about the series , we wish he had not . &nbsp ; 
the explanations are so trite and ridiculous that one would have preferred it had carter not explained quite so much . &nbsp ; 
i am willing to suspend my disbelief a fair bit , but the absurdity carter wants me to swallow was just too much . &nbsp ; 
breaking the suspension of disbelief destroys the movie - and listening to other fans leave the cinema , maybe the series too . 
&nbsp ; the explanations are not only absurd , they are tired and unoriginal . &nbsp ; 
the extraterrestrials breed and gestate like those from the alien series , and their craft looks like a leftover set piece from independence day . &nbsp ; 
note that the alien movies , id4 , and the x-files are all from 20thcentury fox - a studio that is beginning to cannibalize itself i think . 
&nbsp ; the x-files is noteworthy for being the only movie based on a television series to be produced while the series was still running . &nbsp ; 
in comparing the movie and television series certain aspects of the respective media emerge . 
&nbsp ; the avoidance of the series to answer the questions it raised annoyed and frustrated many people . &nbsp ; 
however , i rather liked that about the series . &nbsp ; 
television allows you to impose as much , or as little , meaning on a show as you want . &nbsp ; 
it is the proverbial " blank screen " which we project our minds on . &nbsp ; 
meaning on television is open and ambiguous ; it is the nature of the medium . 
&nbsp ; cinema , on the other hand , is the opposite . &nbsp ; 
it projects onto us the filmmakers mind . &nbsp ; 
we can , in some films , fill the textual gaps ourselves , but that almost never happens in an american film . &nbsp ; 
meaning , in cinema , needs to be self-contained and determined . 
&nbsp ; so , when the x-files made that jump from small to big screen , carter needed to take into consideration the differences in the medium as well . &nbsp ; 
he did not . &nbsp ; 
by making explicit , what the television show left implicit , carter reveals the limits of his creativity and skill . 
&nbsp ; when they say that " fans " make a tv show , it is not far from the truth . &nbsp ; 
on television , fan culture must impose its meanings on the text because there is nothing there . &nbsp ; 
how true that is when we see the " explicit " x-files - there is nothing there . 
contrary to popular belief , not every single foregin film released to an american market is a masterpiece . 
some of them aren't even good . 
some examples of this principle are the aboslutely dreadful " un indien dans la ville " ( presented as " little indian , big city , " and remade into that crap tim allen flick , " jungle2jungle " ) , and this . 
what could have been a clever little sex comedy turns into one mess of a french flick . 
 " french twist " ( the " cool " american title , not the real one , which was " gazon maudit , " literally meaning " twisted ground , " or something like that ) deals with a married couple with kids , and the intrusion of a stranger who kinda screws things up for them . 
loli and alain chabat ( victoria abril and alain chabat ) are not exactly happily married . 
always on business trips , alain chabat more than once cheats on her , and she eventually finds out . 
and one day , she meets a butch mechanic , marijo ( the co-writer/director josiane balasko ) , and they two kinda hit it off . 
so she decides she will get back at alain chabat by doing the obvious : sleeping with marijo . 
but she soons starts to not only fall in love with marijo , but she's also realizes she's still in love with alain chabat . 
so , of course , she does the obvious from that : she decides to keep them both . 
she'll be ( and sleep ) with each of them for 3 days each , then on sunday , she'll rest by herself . 
after all , she needs it if she's gonna have more sex than sylvia kristel . 
the film goes on for over an hour and a half , through stupidity after stupidity , moronic twist after moronic twist , and soon there's the little ironic ( ! ! ! ) 
ending . 
i know it's a completely different culture , and i'm quite familiar with the french and their cinema , but this is just bad . 
none of the characters are more intelligent than peter stormare in " fargo " ( a movie where stupid characters were backed up to make a point ) , and any action they do is pretty much just to get a hopeful chuckle from the audience . 
what's shocking is this was not only one of france's biggest hits , but it was nominated for a lot of cesars ( french equivalent of oscars ) . 
the writing and directing is really the big problem with it . 
josiane balasko does a good acting job with her role , but her little sex comedy isn't very humerous , entertaining , or even deep at all . 
even woody allen's not-very-good " a midsummer night's sex comedy " is intelligent , well-written , and possesses some depth . 
this is shallow , unfunny , and pretty annoying to watch . 
the film moves at the pace of a snail , and is damn-near painful to watch . 
thank god for the fast forward button . 
the acting , however , isn't bad at all . 
the actors do the best they can with the bad material , and victoria abril is pretty likable despite the script ( and the fact that she's stupid enough to try to divide herself over two people when she has kids ) . 
and alain chabat has some funny moments as the neurotic husband . 
but " french twist " is just pretty lame . 
it's not overly horrible , and has a couple very , very , very brief moments . 
but it's just a really crap film , and an example of an ill-advised distribution of a foreign film . 
i can see a decent sports movie struggling to break free of oliver stone's `any given sunday' . 
it's an entertaining movie that offers both insight and excitement into the rock-em , sock-em profession of pro football . 
unfortunately , the director seems to have only one priority on his mind : sprucing up the film with an assortment of fancy camera maneuvers . 
in altering each frame with quick-flash photography and dizzying , in-your-face editing , stone appears to have completely ignored the matter of plausible character development and football politics . 
we see glimpses of greatness , but `any given sunday' has its agenda all tangled in technical gobbledy-gook . 
it grows tiresome and monotonous . 
yes , stone has pulled a brian depalma . 
matters of importance are pushed aside right from the get-go . 
tony d'amato ( al pacino ) , coach of the struggling miami sharks , finds his team stuck in a losing rut . 
aging quarterback cap rooney ( dennis quaid ) appears to be losing his touch , and d'amato can't seem to ignite any passion in his squad . 
when cap is injured on the field , and after a patch of unlikely events occur , third-string qb willie beaman ( jamie foxx ) is brought into the game . 
once in the huddle ( and this becomes an in-game ritual ) , beaman horks all over the field . 
nerves , you see . 
eventually though , the ancy youngster wins the game for his teammates , sparking his rise to fame in the football world - the endorsements , the music videos , etc . - and stone straps us in for the jolting ride of behind-the-scenes stress and fury that the business is apparently like . 
and i believe it . 
there is some intriguing insight posed , but in the big scheme of things , stone fumbles the ball . 
the problem with the director's visual approach is this : he uses extravagant editing devices when a more conventional approach would have been appropriate . 
football is an exciting game to watch , but stone seems to think dizzying the audience with an assault on the senses will only add to the adrenaline rush . 
i guess he is mistaken . 
`any given sunday' is a visual kaleidoscope that leaves the audience in a frustrated stupor more frequently than it excites them . 
many football fans ( including one i attended with ) are liable to be disappointed with the `ultra-stylish' way stone has decided to present the game . 
in return , a three-star film becomes unfortunately degraded due to the director's tampering . 
in welcome scenes when the visual pummeling comes to a break , this actually shows decent character development and interaction . 
for instance , heated returns between d'amato and feisty young owner christina pagniacci ( cameron diaz ) are enjoyable to watch . 
there is also a solid performance from jamie foxx , who experiments with great success in his first trek into dramatic territory . 
the stellar supporting cast includes matthew modine , aaron eckhart , lauren holly , ann-margret and charlton heston ( in an extraordinarily brief appearance ) . 
unfortunately , too many big names are wasted - a typical demise for a film with such a large and experienced cast . 
pacino makes some interesting progress with his character . 
you begin to identify with coach d'amato and the morals he is striving for . . . . 
but i often felt he was just another play thing stone could weave in and out of his editing dynamics . 
`any given sunday' is a watchable but disappointing sports film in which plot and characters take a back seat to excessive filmmaking technique . 
and a very distant back seat , at that . 
this well-conceived but ultra sugary coming-of-age film is not for everyone , and i include myself as one of those who found it too sappy for my digestion . 
joseph cross ( joshua beal ) is a 10-year-old who is saddened by the recent loss of his grandfather ( loggia ) to bone marrow cancer . 
loggia is wonderful in relating to the child in such a wholesome manner , it almost saves this film from drowning in syrup . 
the beals are like a sitcom idyllic family , where everyone is just so nice and affluent , and properly religious without being fanatical . 
the beals , the father ( denis leary ) and his wife ( dana delany ) , are both successful doctors ; julia stiles plays joshua's older sister , needling her younger brother but also showing that she really cares about him . 
this is a family seemingly conceived in heaven , but living in south philadelphia , sending their children to a well-run catholic school . 
joshua , the protagonist and the narrator of this yarn , is a handsome , sweet , intelligent , friendly , and endearing child , who does well in school , relates to the nuns and priests , and talks politely to his well-meaning parents . 
all this mawkish interplay makes it almost too nauseating to watch . 
the plot arises when joseph has a problem coping with the death of his beloved grandfather , who promised to be with him forever . 
his answer is to search for god , pretty heady stuff for a youngster his age to do , but that's just the way it is , sometimes . 
this search for god takes us nowhere because , as his friend david ( reifsnyder ) says , where can you look for him if he doesn't exist . 
now , that's a smart kid . 
but joseph looks for him in the usual places , and what better place than to start in the parochial school he attends . 
one of his teachers is the kind-hearted sister terry ( rosie o'donnell ) , who wears a philly baseball hat and equates the jesus stories with baseball , making him the clean-up hitter , and in my opinion , if she wasn't a big tv star , would have a vocation as a parochial school teacher , she is that convincing . 
throughout the film , she is saved from answering any tough ( sic ! ) 
question about god by the bell , as it rings to end the class . 
nothing much happens in the search for god , there is no parody of the catholic school ; though a visiting cardinal is found by the boy not to be able to talk to god , but this is gentle stuff , no real criticism or search for god is attempted . 
what comes next into play is some hollywood hokum , which is designed not to upset anyone , as joseph has a reassuring encounter with a real , live angel , a blond little boy his own age and dressed like him in the catholic school uniform who wears the innocuous smile of a goody-goody . 
the film ends as this angel ( ! ! ! ) 
tells him his grandfather is all right . 
his quest is ended , as apparently angels don't have wings and are approachable ; and god , well , . . . 
maybe that's for another film down the road . 
this part of the film was the final straw for me , i couldn't swallow any more goo . 
as this film flopped commercially , his next one , the sixth sense , pared down the schmaltz and came up smelling like a rose . 
though if you look through the cleverness of both scripts , this director is loaded with hokum , all he has learned how to do , is hide the hokum better . 
well , god bless him , if he can do that . 
this is a nice family picture and there is room for it in hollywood . 
it's just too bad that it had nothing relevent or even truthful to say about death , children in a parochial elementary school , or for that matter , about god . 
and that family of his , they're too good for words . 
yet the film meant well and its benign message had its heart in the right place . 
for those who want to see something soft , without a bite to it , this is the one . 
 " battlefield earth " is the best comedy of the year . 
it has to be . 
the other prospect is just too horrifying to consider . 
bad movie syndrome struck me again , so after witnessing how much " battlefield earth " has been proclaimed a train wreck in both critical and popular circles , i felt the masochistic urge to see the disaster first-hand . 
is it as bad as advertised ? 
oh yes , very much so . 
the plot is incomprehensible . 
the acting is atrocious . 
the special effects are mediocre . 
the action is dull . 
the implausibilities are legion . 
the dialogue is cringe-inducing . 
the whole package is funny when it wants to be serious and irritating when it wants to be funny . 
i don't even want to continue reviewing this movie ; i'd like to purge the atrocity from my mind as soon as possible , but you probably want to read my thrashing in all its sarcastic glory , so here it is : 
the premise is basically a rip-off of " planet of the apes , " only minus the apes and philosophical discussion , and plus a race of evil aliens from the planet psychlo . 
the year is 3000 , the psychlos have conquered earth , and the human population has been enslaved . 
only a handful of humans escaped to radiation-rich areas to escape the aliens ; they live out their lives in fear . 
one man , johnny goodboy ( i know , i know ) tyler ( barry pepper ) , ventures to the outworld and is captured by the psychlos . 
there he confronts the psychlo head of security : a big , ugly , klingon-looking creature called terl ( john travolta ) . 
pressed into slavery , johnny vows to lead a revolution and take the planet back . 
meanwhile , terl is faced with his own problems : he has recently learned that he's stuck living on earth ( which he hates ) for the rest of his career because he pissed off his boss by sleeping with the big man's daughter . 
he decides to give johnny knowledge of the psychlo language and technology ( this is where the plot gets ridiculous . 
 . 
 . ) 
so the " man-animal " can lead a mining expedition into places the psychlos can't go . 
terl then plans to keep the mined gold for himself . 
of course , his plan doesn't work . 
so many things wrong with this movie -- where to begin ? 
how about with travolta , whose hollywood clout brought about this , the cinematic version of scientology guru l . ron hubbard's sci-fi novel ? 
early previews for " battlefield earth , " with constant shots of a makeup-laden travolta cackling like lex luthor , had me ( and several audience members ) remarking , " what the hell is travolta thinking ? " 
the movie did nothing to stem such remarks . 
all that ridiculous cackling he did in the trailers is in full force here : terl cackles after nearly every line , and so does every other psychlo . 
of course , this makes every scene hilariously overwrought , no more so than when the script clumsily stumbles into political commentary . 
the psychlos are probably supposed to be some kind of satire of corporate america , but ceos generally don't laugh maniacally after denying pay raises to their employees . 
 ( " you were going to be promoted -- but now you're not ! 
fwahahahahahahahaha ! ! ! ! ! " ) 
it's no big surprise terl loses to the humans -- he's an idiot . 
he breaks every kind of supervillain rule in the book . 
he underestimates his enemies , assuming he'll win just because he's smarter . 
 ( he uses the word " leverage " like some sort of scientologist mantra . ) 
not content to go the james bond villain route of explaining his plans to the hero , he hooks him up to a machine that gives him knowledge of all the psychlos' language and technology . 
 ( why this machine is even around in the first place is beyond me . ) 
he then appears shocked that johnny points a gun at him . 
no wonder this guy never got his promotion . 
the plot inconsistencies are too numerous to mention . 
why do the psychlos build an earth base in which both they and the human slaves must wear little breathing apparatuses to survive ? 
how come the psychlos are wasting their time mining for gold when the doors of fort knox are wide open ? 
how in the world did all those fighter jets survive sitting in a hangar for 1 , 000 years ? 
and how do all these previously brain-dead cavemen learn to fly them so quickly ? 
there's a whole lot more to scratch one's head about in " battlefield earth . " 
bring a scorecard to track the plot holes . 
director roger christian shoots " battlefield earth " in the most distracting way possible , tilting nearly every shot sideways for no discernible reason . 
all the characters appear to be standing on the walls , and it's awfully difficult to watch a movie when you must tilt your head just to watch ordinary passages of dialogue . 
the action sequences are atrociously edited , every one turned into an endless slow-motion parade that drains all potential excitement . 
are these things really so hard to construct ? 
my respect for supposed " lightweight " action directors has grown by leaps and bounds after witnessing in " battlefield earth " how badly an action sequence can be shot . 
this movie is an absolute headache . 
it's not just the shot selection and editing ; the movie , quite frankly , makes no sense . 
for most of " battlefield earth's " running time , i just didn't know what was happening . 
it didn't have anything to do with me finding the events stupid or illogical ( though they certainly are ) -- i really had no idea what the hell was going on . 
when i pieced the plot together later , it didn't look any better . 
here's how much of a disaster this is : " battlefield earth " is already the worst movie of the year , and it's going to take something really , really inept to top it . 
the only thing we can take comfort in about the film is that no one will be suckered into joining the church of scientology because of it . 
in fact , i'd think that hubbard's cult would want to distance themselves from this bomb as fast as possible . 
that'll teach me to give into bad movie syndrome again . 
long time buddies and neil diamond tribute band members wayne ( steve zahn , " happy , texas " ) and j . d . ( jack black , " high fidelity " ) watch in horror as third mate darren silverman ( jason biggs , " american pie " ) disappears under the thumb of his new fiance judith , ( amanda peet , " the whole nine yards " ) a controlling psychiatrist . 
they're doubly troubled when the return of darren's 'one and only love' sandy perkins ( amanda detmer , " final destination " ) returns to their home town but doesn't cause a ripple in darren's devotion to judith . 
there's only one thing wayne and j . d . can think of doing - they kidnap judith and fake her death in " saving silverman . " 
written by hank nelken and greg depaul after seeing a friend engaged to the wrong woman , " saving silverman " is directed by 'hit comedy director' dennis dugan of such films as " big daddy , " " brain donors " and " problem child . " 
it's a dismal , third-rate farrelly brothers rip off that attempts to milk humor from such inspired bits of whimsy as having darren's love interest come from a family of circus freaks and be about to become a nun . 
gross out gags include a visualization of darren getting butt cheek implants . 
 " saving silverman " is almost saved by stars zahn and black . 
these two are so comically talented they can take bad material and still deliver the goods . 
they're in " animal house " mode while the rest of the film trawls along and comes up empty . 
jason biggs can attribute his entire career to the luck of having been cast in the smash hit " american pie . " 
peet shows some physical moves but no flair for comedy here while detmer slaps a brave , sweet smile onto her face and soldiers through . 
r . lee ermey ( " full metal jacket " ) is one note in an embarrassing performance as a psychopathic ex-football coach . 
neil diamond appears at the film's climax as himself and miraculously enlivens the proceedings by belting out some of his old standards . 
well if you are up for stellar effects then this is the movie for you . 
because thats all that there really is . . . . 
i found that after watching this movie it had many many gaps and flaws in simple logic in the plot . 
for one thing , a white leading actor who has a black daughter does leave some curiosity . . . . 
i am not saying that this isn't possible . . 
but it does leave one to wonder . . . i 
know i did . 
another thing is that this movie has sections which are painfully stretched out . . . . 
and certain scenes are repeated essentially but with slight variations . 
there was one scene that should have been short . . . 
but it was horribly stretched and somewhere in the middle of it i found myself thinking . . 
ok enough already get on with it . 
there are also times where you have to wonder why things happen the way they do . . . 
things just magically happen and there is no prelude or anything of the sort . . . 
another thing that i noticed towards the end was that some characters just vanished without a trace but they were fairly major through most of the beginning . 
this movie is also very predictable . . . 
you can almost tell the final story somewhere in the middle and you definitely know what will happen at a given moment . . 
granted this is hard to omit but here its just blatant it sits there and stares at you . 
also some of the things that happen are a little too predictable and several cliques are repeated . . . 
it gets boring at times to tell you the truth . . . 
even though there is still action going on . 
another little point i might add is that the main character is supposed to be a quiet chaos mathematician not some shoot them up type of hero . 
some of the characters are not proper for their roles . 
the acting is fine but the characters just don't seem to add up . 
if i was to base my review totally on the plot then i wouldn't rate this movie too highly but that's just the thing this movie isn't just the plot , its the whole package and this package is really well done . 
the whole movie is really well done and looks really good and if one was to overlook the flaws in the plot and characters then this is really a movie . 
the special effects are just amazing , you can't tell that the dinosaurs are created it looks like they were there live , in a few instances of course you know its fake but there are other times that you just wouldn't be able to say that the creature wasn't there during filming , extinct or not . 
another thing is the destruction scenes . . . 
wow , those were masterpieces . . 
well some of them were they were well choreographed and along with the dino's make this one of the reasons to see this movie . 
this movie is fairly long but it is action packed so it should do well in the box office . . 
unfortunately it will take away from fifth element but alas what can we do . . 
i may be too cynical for my age but this movie is only worth seeing for the effects and for it few funny moments . . 
go see it in a matinee if you really must see it its not worth full price if you ask me . 
one little side note , although my opinion of this movie may not have been the best the way that this movie was marketed and how many theaters it was shown in toronto this opening weekend is nothing short of stupid , there were 10 theater movie theaters that were playing this movie around the clock i think that some people really want money badly . . . . 
and i think that this type of activity hurts the movie industry let the other movies also have a chance . . . . 
you know any movie with that much play would succeed even if it was the worst movie ever made . . . . . 
i thought i'd put this here to deflate the movie hype about this flick . . . 
its not that bad a movie but its not that great either hope you people realize this . 
when a film is produced on a shoestring budget by a couple of hardworking filmmakers and when it tells the story of a genuine tragedy , the easy path for a reviewer who hated the movie is to give it a pass . 
toss out your usual objectivity , ignore how many times you checked your watch while viewing it , forget how unbearable it was to sit through , and find some meaningless way to compliment it . 
this , of course , will be of no service to your readers , but at least you'll avoid the hate mail from the movie's fans . 
thus it is with a heavy heart that i review the movie paulina ( not to be confused with the recent movie paulie about a talking parrot ) . 
directed by vicky funari as a labor of intense love - she spent the last one third of her life on film - the movie blends documentary footage with historic and fanciful recreations to relate the bitterly sad and true story of paulina cruz suarez . 
paulina was a maid in vicky's household when vicky was young . 
i got to learn the film's background when i attended a screening in which the two women who made it were present . 
for those without such context , the reaction to the film may be that it is a parody of a bad indie film . 
the acting is amateurish , the story is maudlin , and it has all the visual appeal of a bad home movie . 
grainy and overexposed , the movie , shot on 16mm film and videotape , has little to recommend it . 
confusingly composed , the movie jumps about jarringly as it tells its story . 
quite bloody at times , the story , full of horrific images , seems designed to shock and repulse us . 
why else would you include a scene with a completely nude and bloody 8-year-old paulina ? 
another scene has a teenage paulina being fondled on a bus by the man sitting next to her . 
in retaliation , she bites off part of his finger . 
this covers the both of them in a bucket of blood . 
the passengers on the bus then view the girl in their minds as everything from saint to sinner . 
one , for example , sees her as an aztec priestess holding out a large heart that she had just cut from a body . 
the lugubrious tale has paulina being raped and beaten . 
certainly she had to endure a miserable life . 
but that does not guarantee that a movie about her will necessarily being good . 
i felt trapped in the theater watching it . 
only the opportunity to talk with the filmmakers afterwards made the movie bearable . 
paulina runs 1 : 28 . 
the film is in spanish with english subtitles . 
it is not rated but would be an r for violence and nudity and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
in this year's summer movie preview issue of _entertainment_weekly_ , theresa connelly described her writing-directing debut , _polish_wedding_ , as " a child that did not quite become the child i thought it would . " 
one wonders what exactly she originally had in mind for this jumbled film , a comedy-drama that appears doomed at its most basic elements . 
the family at the center of _polish_wedding_ is the pzoniaks , which consists of mother jadzia ( lena olin ) , father bolek ( gabriel byrne ) , sole daughter hala ( claire danes ) and four sons of varying degrees of facelessness . 
it's a large family , but there's not a sympathetic one in the whole bunch , certainly not in the primary trio . 
jadzia takes pride in building and maintaining a home and family , but she's kind of a hypocrite since she's carrying on an affair with a businessman rade serbedzija ) . 
her excuse for her affair is neglect from bolek , who is such a passive wimp that one cannot connect with his sadness and frustration . 
also , how could he possibly pay so little attention to the saucy , sexy jadzia ? 
hala is a spoiled , self-centered high school dropout whose reckless sexual experimentation predictably leads to pregnancy . 
with such an unappealing set of characters , it's no surprise that _polish_wedding_'s plot complications are far from involving . 
naturally , jadzia and bolek would like hala to marry the young cop , russell schuster ( adam trese ) , who fathered the child , but he refuses to make such a commitment . 
ho-hum . 
another complication , involving the decidedly un-virginal hala being selected to crown a statue of the virgin mary , is first played for laughs and then , inexplicably , as a profound statement in the film's climax--which , ironically , is funnier than any of the film's lame attempts at humor , such as a painfully labored slapstick attempt where jadzia leads her sons in a charge to beat up russell . 
that scene is but one in a number of writing miscues by connelly . 
the jadzia-bolek conflict is resolved in an overly pat way not unfamiliar to sitcom viewers . 
the hala-russell conflict isn't resolved in as contrived a manner , but their ultimate resolution will leave viewers wondering if they had missed something . 
and then there's some atrocious dialogue , which i am sure was not supposed to be as ridiculous as they sound : " look at all these pickles . 
just looking at them gives me such great sadness . " 
as misguided as _polish_wedding_ is , the affair is something of a letdown , considering the strong performances by byrne , danes , and especially the fiery olin . 
they obviously believed in connelly and her material--a faith that audiences will be hard-pressed to share . 
several days after having seen this movie , i'm still trying to determine what director christopher guest , a man whose sense of humor i usually appreciate , found funny in either the concept or the execution of almost heroes . 
this is a dreadful motion picture ? a lowbrow example of period piece comedy with terrible production values and an exceptionally poor laughs-to-jokes ratio . 
there's a kind of desperation in the movie's approach to humor that reveals the film makers' uncertainty about how entertaining the material is ; the manic style betrays itself as a last-ditch attempt to hide the flaws of a failed script . 
the premise doesn't sound especially amusing to begin with ? almost heroes tells the tale of two explorers , the effeminate leslie edwards ( matthew perry ) and the uncouth bartholomew hunt ( chris farley ) , who are racing lewis and clark on the trip to the american northwest . 
edwards and hunt are accompanied by the kinds of weirdoes we find in road movies ( albeit of the early-19th century variety ) , including a frenchman named guy fontenot who claims to speak hundreds of languages ( none of which prove to be useful ) , a pretty indian maiden who turns into the obligatory love interest , and a bizarre man who suffers a series of debilitating injuries . 
along the way , the intrepid explorers encounter bears , bald eagles , aging native american warriors , and a conquistador named hildago ( kevin dunn ) who raves about his beautiful hair . 
the explorers' trek takes them through forests , across the snow-capped rocky mountains , and over a waterfall . 
this setup leads to a lot of shouting , a great deal of lunacy , and very few laughs . 
farley engages in his usual shtick of falling down and bellowing , but , aside from an momentarily diverting confrontation with an eagle , his heart doesn't seem to be in it . 
matthew perry , one of the stars of tv's friends ( who had some modest success in the romantic comedy , fools rush in ) is badly miscast . 
as a foil for farley and an antidote to his runaway energy , perry lacks the necessary edge of the proverbial straight man . 
i'm not a big fan of david spade , and i didn't like tommy boy , but at least he and farley worked well together . 
as far as the supporting players go , none of them makes more than a fleeting impression . 
eugene levy is wasted , and kevin dunn is about as interesting here as he is in godzilla . 
frankly , it's a disappointment to see something this dumb and ugly come from christopher guest , the brilliant comic force behind such films as this is spinal tap , the big picture , and waiting for guffman . 
although guest gets the costumes right , this nearly-inconsequential success is no substitute for the weak script and unfunny execution . 
the special effects , such as they are , are execrable . 
for an example of some really poor blue screen work , look at the scenes where the characters are shooting the rapids ( they're obviously getting buckets of water thrown on them ) and where farley is being carried off by an eagle . 
even though farley didn't have the most stellar of acting careers , he doesn't deserve the kind of unfortunate epitaph offered by almost heroes . 
while some of the more outrageous attempts at humor may coax a few guffaws from 12-year old boys , the level of comedy in almost heroes falls far below the level of sophomoric . 
farley fans who see this film as a way to say goodbye should be commended for their loyalty , since it takes real stamina to stay seated for the full running length of this cinematic torture session . 
when i was nine , i started buying the coolest toy figures in my local department store . 
masters of the universe was the pinnacle of what i was after for action figures : they combined science fiction and fantasy , had cool names like mekanek and stinkor and each came with its own little comic book to read . 
of course , the animated series produced by filmation remains one of the most wildly successful television products in world history . 
given the tremendous success of the toys and the cartoon ( not to mention its moderately successful spin-off she-ra : princess of power ) , it was inevitable that a production company would put two and two together , come with the result of " trillions " and make a live-action masters movie . 
let's be blunt : masters of the universe is a very bad movie . 
the story is painfully dull and mind-numbingly cliched ( hands up who * wouldn't * guess he-man and skeletor take their fight into the real world ) and is acted out by either incredibly untalented actors ( dolph lundgren as he-man for one ) or good actors ( james tolkan , meg foster ) given such awful characters and dialogue that they can't help but seem terrible . 
it is extremely clear that someone making the movie wanted it to be as good as star wars . 
we have the alien bounty hunters , the desert skif technology , stormtrooper lookalikes and a musical score so reminiscent of john williams that " deja vu " is too polite a term to use in describing it . 
 " blatant uninspired ripoff " would appear more appropriate . 
tv fans might want to check out courtney cox ( monica in friends ) and robert duncan mcneill ( lt paris in star trek : voyager ) , very early in their careers and not doing to well in them either . 
so in the face of such mindless sub-mediocrity , is there anything to make masters of the universe worth watching at all ? 
yes , there is . 
one incredible good reason . 
his name is frank langella . 
langella has always been one of the underrated actors of hollywood , appearing in countless films over the years . 
here he plays skeletor , the villain of the piece . 
dressed in opulent black velvet robes and bearing a skull for a face , he is one part darth vader , one part emperor and two parts grim reaper . 
given this character , langella falls right into it with style and precision . 
skeletor is believable , interesting and manages to tread the fine line between being a homage to the past and startlingly original in his own right . 
masters of the universe . 
i remember loving it when i was eleven . 
at twenty one it's difficult to see why . 
but , as i said , it is blessed with a superlative villain who makes the entire thing worth the tedium of the remainder . 
besides , this year marks the film's 10th anniversary . 
watch it with some friends for a good laugh and celebrate . 
in " gia " , angelina jolie plays the titular character , the first so-called supermodel . 
and right there you have the biggest hurdle this movie had to overcome ( in my eyes , anyway ) . 
i just don't see how the life of a model is worthy of a two hour film . 
despite this , i kept an open mind when i began watching the movie . 
sadly , though , my fears were realized . 
it's just not possible to make an interesting , full-length film about a person who spends their days wearing different clothes . 
the movie follows the rise and fall of gia ( no last name ) , a tumultuous woman who doesn't particularly enjoy the world of fashion . 
she becomes famous more quickly than she can handle , and finds herself hooked on drugs and on a woman she cannot have . 
the last hour of the film is just one scene after another of gia getting high , losing a job , and going into rehab . 
this formula is repeated several times , and i really got tired of it . 
in general , i tend to dislike movies featuring heavy drug use . 
no because it offends me or anything like that ; it just bores me . 
quite frankly , i don't see the appeal , so when a director shows me a point-of-view shot of a junkie , complete with tipsy camera angles and echoing voices , i am left somewhat unimpressed . 
the first hour of the film , though , was actually quite engaging . 
we see gia as she is discovered and moves to new york with her boyfriend . 
these early scenes were interesting . 
we're shown the fashion world through a newcomers eyes , and it was a perspective i hadn't seen before . 
the movie begins to go downhill , however , once gia becomes an established model . 
>from that point , i lost all interest in the movie and was counting the minutes before it would end . 
it all seemed so excessive . 
fine , so gia had a drug problem , does this really need to dominate the film ? 
couldn't the same effect have been had with a five or ten minute montage of scenes featuring gia experimenting with drugs ? 
or perhaps this film is meant to be a warning to aspiring models not to get into the drug world . 
quite possibly , although since i have no desire to become a model , this warning is lost on me . 
as i stated at the beginning of this review , i simply don't see how the life of a model is worthy of a feature-length motion picture . 
what do they do that warrants a movie ? 
strut their stuff for thousands of dollars an hour ? 
i suppose the same could be said about making movies about baseball players , for example , but at least somebody like lou gehrig led an interesting life . 
gia did not . 
and by the end of the film , all i knew about gia for sure was that she hated modelling , was bi-sexual , and was heavily into drugs . 
not exactly a meaningful contribution to society , as far as i'm concerned . 
talk about beating a dead horse ! 
when home alone was released in 1990 , it was a breath of fresh air , and the final box office tally indicated how much audiences appreciated a genuinely-funny family film . 
the unexpectedly high gross guaranteed a sequel , so , two years later , we were subjected to home alone 2 , which might as well have been called clone alone for all of the originality it exhibited . 
for john hughes , two home alone movies weren't enough ? he began recycling the same kinds of villains and situations in almost every movie he was involved with , including a pathetic box office bomb called baby's day out , last year's live-action 101 dalmatians , and this year's flubber . 
now , inexplicably , hughes has exhumed not only these worn-out plot elements , but the " home alone " name as well . 
the result ? 1997's worst sequel ( edging out speed 2 and batman and robin ) , home alone 3 . 
by changing the characters , hughes ( who wrote and co-produced the film ) , along with his co-conspirator , director raja gosnell , has attempted to inject new life into a series that is way past the point of cardiac arrest . 
the new kid , alex pruitt , is played by alex d . linz ( one fine day ) , and the only thing he has going for him is terminal cuteness . 
he's not half as interesting as macaulay culkin once was . 
the villains , pale copies of joe pesci and daniel stern , are even less engaging than the pair of idiots in flubber . 
in home alone 3 , there are four of them ( olek krupa , david thornton , lenny von dohlen , and rya kihlstedt ) , but all that means is an opportunity for twice as many pratfalls . 
this time , the kid isn't left home alone because his parents have gone on a trip . 
instead , he has developed a bad case of chicken pox , so he can't go to school . 
his dad ( kevin kilner ) is away on business and his mom ( haviland morris ) has to run errands , so , for the most part , he's all by himself during the day . 
through a series of coincidences too irritating to relate , a top secret u . s . air force integrated circuit comes into his possession . 
it's wanted by a gang of four international crooks who intend to break into alex's home to retrieve it . 
the eight- year old , who is wise beyond his years , booby traps the house with all sorts of rube goldberg-type devices designed to humiliate and incapacitate the villains . 
the movie's climax takes place during a raging snowstorm ? only none of the falling flakes looks remotely believable . 
previously , the most counterfeit-looking snow effects i can remember were in star trek iii . 
these are far worse . 
in fact , the production values are so shoddy that there are some scenes in the midst of this near-blizzard when a shining sun can be seen . 
if it's a wonderful life could generate real- looking snow back in the 1940s , why can't home alone 3 , which has a significantly larger budget and '90s technology at its disposal ? 
there has been an ongoing debate regarding the appropriateness of live-action cartoon violence for young children . 
home alone 3 will add fuel to the fire . 
it's one thing to see wyle e . coyote flattened by a 10 ton acme weight , but quite another to watch a running lawn mower fall on lenny von dohlen . 
adults and even older children will recognize that this is obviously fake and intended to be humorous , but what about five and six-year olds ? 
the level of violence in home alone 3 is extreme ? many of alex's schemes are nasty enough to kill . 
but , because this is a " family film , " no one dies , despite being electrocuted , falling thirty feet , and getting smacked on the head by a barbell . 
not only is home alone 3 unnecessary , but it's offensive . 
it's an exercise in tediousness , and there isn't a genuine laugh to be found from the beginning to the end ( unless , by some strange quirk of fate , you have missed every 1990s movie associated with john hughes , and thus haven't seen this stuff before ) . 
i can't imagine anyone with a reasonable attention span being more than momentarily distracted by this pointless adventure . 
maybe that's why the only ones laughing at the screening i attended were still in their thumb-sucking years . 
conventional wisdom among collectibles retailers is that children's items begin to dramatically escalate in price about twenty-five or thirty years after the item was made . 
that's when the kids of that time have jobs , disposable income and a desire to re-visit the awe and wonderment of childhood that has disappeared from their lives . 
check out the prices of toys from the late sixties and you'll find that yogi bear lunch boxes are demanding big bucks . 
there's a heavy nostalgia nowadays for the late sixties and early seventies and nowhere is it more apparent than on the big screen . 
boomers are now mostly in their forties and fifties and have lived in the work-a-day world for a long time . 
they'd like to re-capture some of that fun they remember from days of yore . 
hollywood seems more than eager to churn out product to help them . 
directors are zealous to put their stamp on icons from that time . 
and for the most part they're messing it up . 
 " mission impossible " , " lost in space " , " godzilla " , " zorro " . 
none of these successfully capture the originals . 
none of these are even good films . 
you can now add " the avengers " to the list . 
the british television series began in 1961 . 
super secret agent john steed ( then-patrick macnee ) and his third partner , emma peel ( then-diana rigg ) are the pair that the american audience fell for . 
surrealistic and witty , the series fit the mood of the times . 
the leather-clad rigg probably didn't hurt the ratings either . 
after all it's not a coincidence that you can't pronounce her character's name without " appeal " . 
now we're in the nineties . 
steed ( now-ralph fiennes ) and peel ( now-uma thurman ) are battling evil genius sir august de wynter ( sean connery ) who is screwing with england's weather . 
that's about as much of a plot as we have . 
there's some footage about a lot of other things that either don't make sense or make even less sense . 
we get betrayal for some unknown reason . 
evil clones appear and vanish and have no connection to the film . 
remarkably ineffective giant flying robot wasps with machine guns in their belly come from nowhere for no good reason . 
there's a high tech hot air balloon , but i have no idea why anyone's in it . 
the spy agency is run by a man called " mother " who is in a wheelchair and a woman named " father " who is blind . . . at 
least in some scenes . 
there's probably a reason for all of this , but we'll never know it . 
macnee makes an appearance of sorts . 
he is the voice for an invisible man whose character goes nowhere in a scene that does nothing . 
a group of villains sits around a table , all clad in huge pastel-colored teddy bear outfits . 
at first it's humorous to watch the teddies waddle around , but then it becomes goofy . 
the movie is a medley of clutter , confusion and wrong decisions around every corner . 
it feels like major portions of the film are missing . 
the storyline jumps rather than flows . 
reportedly the film was re-cut several times . 
this is one of those times where the whole is less than the sum of the parts especially since some of the parts appear to be missing . 
there's one good point where peel is running from one room to another in a house designed by escher . 
other than that , the effects are second-rate . 
the weather threat is old hat as are the scenes of huge tornadoes . 
thurman almost makes an adequate emma peel but it doesn't work . 
she looks good , dresses in all the right fetish outfits but there's no spark . 
fiennes fares even less well . 
macnee's steed was a witty man of the world with a sense of humor . 
fiennes' agent comes across as a dour kid in grown-up clothes who has never been out of his home town . 
even connery , one of the greatest living actors , doesn't have much of a presence outside of a few fiery scenes . 
the action scenes are difficult to follow . 
director jeremiah chechik ( responsible for the atrocious remake of " diabolique " ) somehow manages to put the camera exactly where it shouldn't be . 
things happen , people move around , but even if , with the utmost effort , you were able to care about any of it , the scenes are bewildering . 
the primary allure of the original was the interaction between the two leads . 
witty banter and an underplayed sexual tension were a winning combination . 
admittedly there are a few humorous sexual puns in the film , but there's no chemistry and the repartee is anything but clever . 
one of emma peel's first lines of dialog is " rules are made to be broken . " 
it doesn't get any better . 
advance word alone should have been enough to scare off anyone . 
the release date was changed several times . 
connery refuses to promote the film . 
there was no screening for critics which may have been a good choice for warner brothers . 
at least this way , they get something of an audience for the first weekend before the news gets out . 
admittedly i haven't seen an episode of the television series for a couple of decades . 
my guess is that it would be severely dated now . 
no matter how antiquated it might be , there's no doubt that it holds up better than this film is at first viewing . 
there's no reason to waste any part of the last few days of summer inside watching this movie . 
no reason at all . 
the following review encompasses two versions of dune : 
dune : the theatrical version ( 1984 ) runtime : 137 minutes capsule review : cut down to just over two hours by nervous studio executives , the theatrical version of dune is a spectacular mess and may be incomprehensible to those unfamiliar with the book . 
the film's visual splendour , mystical beauty and impressive action scenes only partly compensate for gaping holes in the narrative . 
dune : the extended version ( 1988 ) runtime : 189 minutes capsule review : a bit of a throw-together assembled by mca tv special projects for cable television . 
it was disowned by director david lynch but it's considerably closer to his original vision by virtue of its improved characterisation and clearer storyline . 
quality dubs of this version from the out-of-print japanese laserdisc release are available from various dealers on the world wide web . 
 * * * the review * * * 
released in 1984 and made on a then mammoth budget of $40 million , the film of frank herbert's cult novel dune was eagerly awaited by sci-fi fans . 
director david lynch ( blue velvet , eraserhead , twin peaks ) was working on his biggest production to date , a mammoth undertaking filmed under trying conditions on location in mexico . 
the screenplay was lynch's own , chosen after the script submitted by original author herbert was rejected . 
dune is set in a universe ruled by powerful families overseen by a successive line of emperors . 
the key to cosmic power is the planet arrakis ( dune ) , a windswept desert planet that's home to giant sandworms and the precious spice melange . 
the spice is the most valuable commodity in the universe . 
it extends the life and expands the consciousness of those who consume it . 
most importantly , it allows the navigators of the spacing guild ( once human but now hideously mutated ) to " fold space " and navigate their spacecraft across mammoth distances instantaneously , enabling interstellar commerce and trade to flourish . 
lynch's film by necessity excises parts of the book while retaining the story's two main strands . 
one is the long-standing rivalry between two families , houses atreides and house harkonnen , and their battle for lucrative mining rights on arrakis . 
the second strand is the emergence of young paul atreides as the reluctant messiah long-awaited by the natives of arrakis , the fremen . 
the deeply religious fremen want control over their homeworld , and young paul may be the fulfilment of their prophecy that a man would come from the outer worlds and lead them to freedom . 
unfortunately , this epic story unfolds in a confusing and haphazard manner in the theatrical cut of the film , which runs 30 to 60 minutes shorter than what lynch originally intended . 
the thinking among universal's oh-so-wise money men was that films over two hours in duration were not popular with audiences at the time and would not do well at the box office . 
with lynch's initial cut running at closer to three or more hours , the studio demanded that further cuts be made . 
what a great idea ! 
why not trim down an already complex film so as to make it almost incomprehensible ? 
the most glaring consequence of this one-eyed stupidity is a hopelessly jumpy narrative , leaving us with badly underdeveloped characters . 
thus their personalities are vague , their motivations unclear and , in the case of paul's father duke leto , their demise rather meaningless . 
the end result is a distinct chill : we can't warm to most of the cast and we don't care much for them . 
and it hardly helps that the voice-over narration is sparse and that the dune-esque language and terminology sounds like so much gobbledegook to those unfamiliar with the book . 
dune is also a very serous film . 
the constant " self-talk " by various characters makes it so serious and self-absorbed at times that you may find it hard not to wince with embarrassment . 
the overall impression is a world full of people so intense that no one is allowed a joke lest the universe come crashing down around them . 
humour - or at least a gentle kind of humour as distinct from the harkonnen's mad , sadistic kind - is hard to find . 
you may balk at the comparison , but as a writer lynch could well have done with some lessons from george lucus' star wars trilogy . 
the theatrical version is still some way from being a complete disaster , however . 
it still possesses enough of lynch's stylistic quirks and enough visual invention to sustain the interest of viewers with a taste for imaginative sci-fi . 
special effects whiz carlo rambaldi's giant sandworms are an awesome sight . 
both the production design ( anthony masters ) and costume design ( bob ringwood ) are striking and original . 
and the magnificent score by toto and brian eno is one of the most underrated soundtracks of the last twenty years . 
with these elements in place and the benefit of freddie francis' lush cinematography , the film is at least a feast for the senses . 
see it in the widescreen format if you can . 
and despite all the cuts , several cast members still make a strong impression , most notably kenneth mcmillan as the supremely nasty baron vladimir harkonnen . 
sian phillips also registers strongly as the reverend mother gaius helen mohiam , leader of the bene gesserit religious order who's secret aim is to manipulate paul's destiny for its own shadowy ends . 
as paul atreides , the young kyle maclachlan starts off somewhat shakily , but as his character grows in strength so does his performance and he emerges as a credible leader of the fremen crusade . 
the conclusion ? 
any assessment of this film must take into account that frank herbert's original novel is a complex piece of work and presents a tough challenge for any filmmaker . 
david lynch took a brave stab at it and , partly due to forces beyond his control , ended up with an officially released version that fails in several key respects . 
dune certainly confused and frustrated a lot of people on its release . 
many chose to stay away altogether , as the film's disastrous box office showing attests . 
the extended version , however , is a rather different beast . 
in 1984 lynch stated his intention to release his own special edition " director's cut " of the film on home video , a clear indication of his dissatisfaction with the version that ended up in the theatres . 
but , alas , he failed to do so , choosing to move on to other projects . 
in a way , then , it is partly lynch's own fault that what appeared instead was an unauthorised extended version , put together in 1988 by mca tv special projects for airing on cable networks in the usa . 
stung into action , lynch successfully petitioned the director's guild to take his name off the credits and replace it with " allen smithee " , the standard pseudonym for directors who wish to disown their own work . 
he also had the screenwriting credit changed to the anonymous " judas booth " . 
certainly , looking at the results of mca's handiwork there's at least half a dozen instances that , for sheer technical sloppiness , are good enough reasons for the director to object . 
but these gripes must be considered in light of the improvements that the extended cut of dune offers in several crucial areas . 
most of the changes involve the restoration or extension of cut scenes and the addition of extra narration , both of which fill many holes in the original version's storyline . 
paul's relationship with his father and associates is more intimate , with moments of humour and warmth lacking previously . 
the political skulduggery involving the emperor , the spacing guild , the bene gesserits and the two warring houses is far better explained . 
paul's initiation into the fremen way of life on arrakis is also fleshed out considerably . 
and as further background , a new prologue has been added featuring narration and painted stills to give us a brief history of the dune universe . 
as a piece of storytelling , then , mca tv's version of dune is clearly superior . 
as a piece of editing , however , it is at times surprisingly inept . 
the use of painted stills in the new prologue works well enough , but their occasional appearance once the action begins is inappropriate . 
there's some sloppy cutting , too , and in a few instances shots even appear out of order . 
and the use of repeated footage to fabricate certain scenes ( eg . 
ships coming and going , soldiers coming and going ) is at times clearly out-of-context . 
this is the kind of thing to which lynch objected , and rightly so . 
it should also be noted that several questionable scenes and shots from the theatrical version were deleted to satisfy the censorship demands of u . s . television . 
but the most notable omission is a gratuitous piece of nonsense from lynch that wasn't even in herbert's book . 
the scene features baron harkonnen killing a beautiful young man in front of his slobbering henchmen by pulling out his " heart plug " . 
its a surreal and disturbing episode that's very lynch-esque but adds nothing to what we already know : the baron is a nasty piece of work . 
despite its own peculiar flaws , then , the extended version of dune is a generally superior film . 
all up , it contains 35 minutes of restored footage and approximately another 15 minutes of either altered , fabricated or newly created sequences . 
unless the idiosyncratic lynch has a sudden change of heart , the " alan smithee " version remains the closest we'll get to what the movie should have been . 
on repeated viewings , one suspects it is closer than what lynch would be prepared to admit . 
still , as one of this century's great science-fiction novels , some fans and perhaps the late herbert himself would argue that dune deserved a better fate in its transfer to the screen . 
with rumours circulating of a new six hour mini-series planned by production company new amsterdam entertainment in 1998 , it is unlikely that we have heard the last of the dune saga . 
in 1970s , many european intellectuals , especially those on the left political hemisphere , became obsessed with the rise of fascism . 
which wasn't so hard to expect , because the social turmoil of 1960s and economic decline of 1970s seemed to be the breeding ground for many dangerous ideologies . 
in such times , when political involvement could be associated with noble passion , many filmmakers tried to warn the present generations of dangers that lurk ahead by giving the look of pre-war europe and circumstances that led to phenomena like fascist italy and nazi germany . 
of course , there were authors who jumped on the bandwagon for other , less noble reasons . 
for them , moral depravity of fascism could be explained to the audience by explicitly showing sexual depravity of those era . 
which , naturally , made some of those films very popular among teen audience . 
one of such filmmakers was italian director tinto brass , who later made career shooting expensive , stylish soft porn . 
salon kitty , his 1976 film , is very losely based on the novel by peter nordern , book that deals with bizarre yet true story that took place in the first years of ww2 . 
in 1939 , walter schellenberg , one of the heads of nazi intelligence service has set up the elite , exclusive brothel in berlin with clientele comprised of top nazi officials and foreign diplomats . 
none of the customers knew that the girls were all nazi agents , and that all the rooms happened to be bugged . 
the most bizarre thing is the fact that not even kitty , nominal madame of the brothel , didn't know the real purpose of that enterprise . 
screenplay by tinto brass , of course , simplifies the story and changes few names . 
schellenberg is now wallenberg ( helmut berger ) , ambitious nazi official who wants to use the brothel in order to blackmail his way to the top . 
kitty kellerman ( ingrid thulin ) , apart from being madam , has a second job as a cabaret singer . 
caught in the net of depravity is sweet , innocent girl margerithe ( theresa ann savoy ) thrown into brothel . 
there she falls in love with customer hans reiter ( bekim fehmiu ) , disenchanted pilot of luftwaffe . 
when margerithe discovers that her lover had been executed for defeatist speeches he made in the brothel , she finds out that the place is bugged . 
she informs the madam of the real situation , and both women decide to confront wallenberg . 
those who tend to bash benigni for exploiting holocaust as the topic of comedy would probably go bananas watching this film , that uses the darkest pages of european history for cheap sexploitation . 
but , although salon kitty doesn't happen to be anything more than rather more stylish and expensive soft porn ( although not very successful ; some of supposedly erotic scenes are quite unappealing ) , it does try to have more multidimensional characters and even something resembling dramatic conflict - this time between power-hungry and scruples wallenberg and hedonistic womanhood symbolised by kitty . 
unfortunately , brass seems to overuse other cinematical references , probably thinking that he could repeat the successful interaction of berger and thulin in luchino visconti's the damned , but the most noticeable and irritating is ingrid thulin's unsuccessful attempt to imitate lisa minelli's musical numbers from cabaret . 
all in all , salon kitty is failure , although with some very interesting moments . 
dr dolittle ( 20th century fox ) running time : 1 hour 25 minutes starring eddie murphy directed by betty thomas riding high on the success of the nutty professor ( 1996 ) , murphy returns in this abysmal comedy . 
he plays doctor john dolittle , who as a child had the ability to understand animals . 
however , after being 'exorcised' he loses this ability , and we fast forward to see dolittle in a crummy job surrounding by crummy people ( most notably dr mark weller , played by oliver platt . ) 
however , with a bonk on the head his ability to understand animals returns , and 'comedy' is ready and waiting to happen . 
except comedy never does happen . 
doctor dolittle , even with the excellent premise , rarely manages to raise a laugh . 
poor old murphy looks bored stiff throughout the whole movie , and his performance suffers . 
the manic murphy we saw in the 80's is gone , his more mature ( and more boring ) twin appears to be getting all the work in the 90's . 
the voices of the animals , which include albert brooks , chris rock ( the 'new' eddie murphy ) and norm mcdonald as 'lucky' the dog are marginally better , and at least they put enthusiasm in the movie . 
sadly , most of their lines are pretty dumb . 
and they're not 'funny' dumb , like dumb & dumber ( 1994 ) , but just boring dumb . 
the film even succumbs to fart jokes halfway through , in a desperate attempt to raise some laughs . 
there are a few good jokes in the script , but they are few and far between . 
if i had to choose a favourite performance , it would probably be albert brooks tiger , who has a certain charm about him . 
sadly , he's barely in the movie , and rock's really annoying hamster is given far too much screen time . 
joke wise , we are thankfully , spared the mocking and insulting type of jokes that featured heavily in the nutty professor . 
the director , betty thomas , has , well , done better films . 
she bought us private parts ( 1997 ) and the brady bunch movie ( 1995 ) which were , sadly , much better than this . 
the scenes lack any charm , she just gets the job done . 
the animals themselves , are reasonable realistic , although most of them are obviously puppets . 
there's an impressive looking tiger , however , and the lip sync is pretty good . 
you'd have no problem guessing that most of the close up's are puppets , however , with their jilted movement . 
i was hoping jim hensons workshop , who created the furry friends , would have done a better job . 
doctor dolittle , in the end , is a disappointment for everyone involved . 
murphy has done much better movies ( i . e 
trading places ) the director has seen better days , and even the creatures aren't that good . 
the target audience , aged between 7-13 , who are undemanding , will probably like it however , thanks to it's dumbed down humour . 
everyone else , however , should give doctor dolittle a miss . 
the general's daughter is a heartless , absurd film , a movie so hopelessly dedicated to its inane plot that it forgets entirely about its own characters . 
director simon west treats issues like rape and sexual fetish with ham-handed obscenity , creating a film that banks almost entirely on exploitation and offensive pseudo-depth . 
what's worse is that the movie is haphazardly glued together by two characters who are neither interesting nor sympathetic -- the ridiculous story requires them to do unbelievable things in the interest of reaching a dark conclusion in a sudden rain storm . 
john travolta finds himself in the middle of the mess , playing warrant officer paul brenner ; brenner is assigned to find the murderer and rape of captain elizabeth campbell ( leslie stefanson ) , daughter of general joe campbell ( james cromwell ) . 
brenner is teamed up with ex-spouse sarah sunderland ( madeline stowe ) , and they check out all the suspects on the base , including elizabeth's mentor , colonel moore ( james woods ) . 
soon , it becomes apparent that elizabeth was into kinky sexual stuff , but the question comes down to why -- and , of course , who . 
ebert's law of the economy of characters can be applied here ; one interesting thing i noted is that not only are all the characters suspects at some point ( including the two protagonists ) , but almost all of them end up directly intertwined with the story . 
perhaps i should have issued a spoiler alert before mentioning that , but it's painfully obvious from the beginning that everyone in the film is hiding something . 
on a story level , the general's daughter is ineptly constructed . 
the film , adapted by christopher bertolini and william goldman from nelson demille's novel ( which was apparently based on a true story ) , plods along to its conclusion , filling in the blanks with stale , unrealistic dialogue and " shocking " plot developments . 
having not read the novel , it's difficult to determine if these problems are the fault of the adapters or the original author , but i suppose they all are guilty to some degree . 
scene after scene stumbles with pointless insincerity ; minutes after finding the dead young woman , brenner and sunderland engage in sarcastic dialogue , which includes endless strings of forced lines . 
 ( sunderland actually asks brenner , " why was she killed ? " 
to which i would have answered , " if i knew , then the movie would already be over . " ) 
only after we've spent twenty minutes or so with these characters do we learn that they have a sordid history together ; this angle , though apparently present to develop their characters , is never explored . 
not that it really matters , since the characters consistently do ludicrous things for no other reason than to drive the plot . 
in one scene , sunderland is attacked by a man in a mask . 
she sees one of his rings , and she and brenner find the man later that day based on the ring . 
instead of questioning him like as they would a real suspect , they take him to brenner's houseboat , beat him up , and pour hot coffee in his lap . 
this scene really pushed me over the edge , not because it's gratuitous and mean-spirited , but because it illustrates the film's complete disregard for the characters and the audience . 
it was impossible for me to feel anything for these people beyond this scene , mostly because nothing they do comes as a surprise . 
i realized that these constructs on screen aren't actually characters , but devices present only to serve the story . 
this would have been bad enough without the west's need to hose his movie down in tasteless images of rape and sexual misconduct . 
compelling films about sexual crimes don't spend a lot of time on rape flashbacks , and they certainly don't show as much skin and sweat as a typical pornographic picture . 
these scenes are not the least bit powerful ; on the contrary , they're intended simply to provide the audience with the necessary resentment for the villain , whomever that may turn out to be . 
in addition , the movie treats sexual fetishes -- and sadomasochism in particular -- as if it's a perversion of everything we know to be pure . 
this standpoint is certainly allowed , but only in accompaniment with well-developed themes to back it up . 
as it is , the film forgets that a lot of people have sexual fetishes , and that putting on a pair of handcuffs does not make a person insane . 
perhaps the only positive elements in the general's daughter are a couple of the performances . 
james woods has a few terrific scenes , and plays his role with sharp , witty subtlety . 
i also liked james cromwell , mostly because he comes across as slightly sympathetic despite the obvious intent of west to make him villainous . 
nonetheless , these performances are undermined entirely by the dreary , obligatory atmosphere and the senseless neglect of characterization . 
the general's daughter is the worst kind of hollywood film -- it pretends to have a soul , to be of strict moral code , when in fact it has nothing more than a group of cardboard cut-outs force-feeding the audience a toxic landfill of plot contrivances and one-sided moral judgments . 
disney's " air bud " tells a boy-and-his-dog story with a twist -- the pooch is quite an accomplished basketball player . 
granted , for a family comedy , it's not a very funny or successful idea to begin with , but it doesn't seem to matter -- " air bud " is surprisingly solemn . 
save for occasional moments of forced slapstick , the movie wags its tale with a straight face -- not a very enjoyable approach . 
if " air bud " had realized its own absurdity , then it possibly could have been better . 
here , we're actually asked to cheer a moment when the dog marches out to save the big game , clad in two pairs of sneakers and even a jersey . 
its number ? 
k9 . 
yeah , whatever . 
the movie opens as golden retriever buddy ( as himself ) escapes from his current owner , abusive clown-for-hire norm snively ( michael jeter ) . 
he ends up in fernwell , washington , where mopey new-kid-on-the-block josh ( kevin zegers ) is trying to cope with the move and the recent death of his father . 
buddy , kevin . 
kevin , buddy . 
once the dog proves his on-court prowess , kevin's self-esteem rockets . 
they both win places in the school's basketball team , with the animal as their mascot . 
but before they can make it to the finals , snively surfaces to reclaim buddy . 
everything plays out just as one would think : heavy on predictability , light on an actual story . 
the movie follows a calculated chain of events -- kevin's gloom fades , snively gets his comeuppance and buddy contracts rabies and must be executed old yeller-style . 
okay , that last one's a lie , but at least it would have been a quicker send-off than " air bud " 's courtroom climax -- no joke ! 
there's even a faux-cute musical montage where a reluctant buddy gets cleaned-up to " splish splash . " 
paint cans are spilled and newspapers are buried , all in the name of formula . 
the end credits note that " no special visual effects were used in the basketball sequences of this motion picture . " 
that very well may be true , and although to see a dog sink shots is quite a sight , a movie cannot exist on feat alone . 
but " air bud " doesn't seem to be interested in anything else . 
a friend of mine insists he saw buddy a while back on a segment of david letterman's " stupid pet tricks . " 
i can't think of a more appropriate connection -- this movie is a stupid pet trick . 
a few months before the release of star wars episode 1 , the phantom menace , 20th century fox decides to release another space film , that is a complete rip off of star wars . 
what is the point of this ? 
i do not know , but i wish it hadn't been done , considering wing commander is definitely the year's worst film so far . 
to attract people to this horrible movie , they attached the full trailer for the phantom menace . 
wing commander will draw large crowds , because this is the only film where you can find the phantom menace full trailer attached at this time . 
the trailer for the phantom menace was certainly the best part of the movie experience i had tonight . 
many people do not know that wing commander is based on a star wars computer game . 
i found this very interesting , considering this fact almost says that wing commander is a star wars movie . 
it is nowhere near the level of the star wars films though . 
freddie prinze jr . stars in the film as christopher blair . 
wing commander was a huge mistake for freddie . 
this was definitely his worst performance to date . 
after january's she's all that , i actually saw a good actor in freddie , but now all those visions have been crushed . 
 ( for now anyway . ) 
christopher blair is a pilot who is a part of the battle to stop the kilrathi , a group that is trying to destroy the earth . 
blair's parents also fought in the space battles , and also died there . 
his parents were pilgrims , so many people disrespect him because of this . 
blair is under the command of " angel " , played by saffron burrows , and he is friends with another pilot , todd " maniac marshall " , played by matthew lillard . 
matthew lillard seems to play the same role in every movie , and he does in this one too . 
his character as stu in 1996's scream ( a+ ) , was a great one , but now , it seems like that same role is being played again , only in a space movie . 
the three are just a small part of a large group trying to stop the kilrathi before they take over earth . 
this plot is very flimsy , and doesn't give a whole lot to work with at all . 
this explains why wing commander drags on , seeming like there is no point to any of the events that are going on . 
the acting is horrible in wing commander . 
many lines seem out of place , and are completely meaningless . 
the acting and dialogue was so terrible , i even found myself laughing at it . 
the other things which are very bad about wing commander are the special effects and the music . 
the special effects are very unrealistic . 
when looking at two ships flying side by side , it is simple to tell they are hanging and a blue screen is behind them . 
the explosions look very unrealistic as well . 
a ship will be blown up , but there will only be fire present four about one half of a second . 
this is very unrealistic . 
music pretty much accompanies the film the entire time . 
the music also felt like video game music , and it was very corny and annoying sounding . 
after we are given the plot , the film repeats itself for another hour , without any plot twists , interesting scenes , or anything important to the film . 
blair is forced to make jumps over other planets , and he must also fight against the kilrathi aircraft . 
for the entire length of the movie , it takes place in space . 
it is truly like you are in a video game , because you are just watching people shoot at each other in ships for a long , extended period of time . 
it's not much fun to watch at all . 
if i wanted to watch people shoot at each other in ships , i would go watch star wars at home . 
at least star wars pays attention to people , myth , feelings , and has some real plot to it . 
the bottom line- bring on the phantom menace 20th century fox ! 
bad movies described as " a swift descent into sinful pleasure , decay , and debauchery " are hard to watch . 
bad 2000's movies that resemble bad 1980s films are even harder to watch . 
shadow hours falls into the latter category , a mish-mashed train wreck of b-movie actors ( including michael dorn , aka star trek's worf ) , an uninteresting plot , vain attempts at capitalizing on the " underground " scenes of seedy los angeles , and really , really bad directing and horrendous music video-esque ballistic editing that was taught to me in film school right before i decided to drop out . 
the film revolves around the life of michael holloway ( balthazar getty ) who is trying to restart his life with his one-dimensional wife chloe ( rebecca gayheart ) after a nasty bout of drug and alcohol addictions . 
michael takes a job of working the graveyard shift at the local gas station and is bombarded by the ugliness and weirdness of the nightlife of l . a . one night , he meets a strange gent named stuart ( mr . buckaroo banzai , peter weller ) . 
he drives a porsche , smokes french cigarettes , and drones on about life , eventually coaxing mike into exploring the " underbelly " of l . a . together , a tour of punk bars , s&m clubs , and bare-knuckle fights . 
the film then throws in a murder mystery with a cop played peter greene , acting like he wants to get the chance at a reprisal of his role in the mask 2 . the film then simply dissolves into a cheap rip-off of dante's inferno mixed with an old stephen j . cannell television pilot . 
the pace of the film is jarring and utterly without focus . 
other horrors include the endless montages of people pumping gas and the charlie sheen , johnny depp , richard grieco-esque acting of balthazar getty . 
peter weller clearly knows his career is completely gone and doesn't give two shits about it . 
and after the cheap exploitation of bondage clubs , dance clubs , and brothels - damn , isn't anyone safe any more from the ugly eye of hollywood ! ? 
way back in 1984 , a great but crazy director named abel ferrara made his worse film and called it fear city . 
shadow hours reminds me of an almost perfect sequel . 
director/writer : isaac eaton producers : peter alevey , andrea mia , shon greenblatt , balthazar getty starring : balthazar getty , peter weller , rebecca gayheart , peter greene , frederic forrest , brad douriff , michael dorn 
bruce willis needs to stay away from straightforward action pictures . 
mercury rising adds to a growing list ( including such stinkers as the jackal , last man standing , striking distance and the last boy scout ) of stale actioners he has headlined . 
and though mercury rising tries to spice things up by throwing an autistic kid in the mix , it is every bit as stale . 
art jeffries ( bruce willis ) is your typical tormented fbi agent . 
you know the type , haunted by his job , yet so good at what he does that even physically assaulting another agent merely gets him a slap on the wrist . 
enter simon ( miko hughes ) , an autistic boy , who , like rain man and all other autistic people , is a savant . 
he can merely gaze at a super-encrypted message , and , while little computer beeps go off in his head , he can understand what it says . 
naturally , this talent has brought him to the attention of the federal government . 
lt . col . nicholas kudrow ( alec baldwin ) , an nsa official bubbling over with evil , has spent countless time and money implementing the newest " unbreakable " code , mercury . 
however , when two of his underlings ( robert stanton and bodhi pine elfman ) publish a mercury-encrypted message in a puzzle magazine as a final test of its effectiveness , simon cracks the code . 
naturally , this infuriates kudrow , who sends a terminator-like hitman ( l . l . 
ginter ) to eliminate the security hazard . 
and that's where art jeffries comes in . 
for some reason that's never explained in the film , the fbi is called in to help , and through a series of intricate machinations , art becomes the sole protector of the young autistic boy . 
in a few unrealistic sequences , he enlists the aid of a stranger , stacey ( kim dickens ) , to help out , but she is given very little to do overall . 
the central concept behind mercury rising is ludicrous . 
why bother trying to kill the kid . . . i 
mean , who would know ? 
it's not like the kid ( or anyone else for that matter ) knew he was cracking a government super-cypher . 
and even if he is eliminated , what does that help ? 
he's already proven that mercury can be broken . 
there's always the chance that someone else would crack it . . . but 
i guess without a kid in jeopardy , there's not much of a movie here . 
for all its faults , the film actually starts relatively well ( once you pass the painfully familiar teaser ) . 
the film flirts with developing real characters , and a semblance of a plot . . . then 
mr . terminator the hitman appears and everything begins going downhill . . . quickly . 
miko hughes does a decent job , for his age , at creating a touching performance . 
however , don't go to this film looking for any new insights into autism ( not that many people will ) . 
instead he merely becomes the latest unique partner in a routine buddy-cop movie ( think cop and a half . . . with a twist ! ) 
willis and baldwin are just overplaying to type . 
rather than creating a nuanced character , baldwin simply oozes sliminess . 
and for willis' part , he simply recycles the stock role of the loner cop/fbi agent ( which he has honed in the die hard series ) . 
as almost an afterthought , about halfway through , the film carelessly gives him a character trait ( an addiction ) , and then drops it in the next scene . 
but the biggest problem with mercury rising is the screenplay . 
this film wasn't well thought out at all . 
the film goes to extraordinary lengths to pad in as many convenient coincidences as possible . 
the carbon paper scene alone is unworthy of the most gullible audience member . 
at first the bad scenes just trickle in , but by the gruesomely bad finale they're a veritable flood . 
the film's few decent moments come in the form of bad jokes ( mainly from the geeks who developed the supercode ) . 
but they're not nearly enough to make the film worthwhile . 
mercury rising is a thriller that you're more likely to groan at than cheer . 
capsule : godawful " comedy " that's amazingly shabby and cut-rate , and rather bereft of laughs . 
i was having a bad week in my life when i saw austin powers : international man of mystery . 
i desperately needed something to cheer me up , or at least distract me so i could get a clear head . 
get some perspective . 
even dumb movies can do that for me , sometimes . 
i tried hard not to let my dejection affect my judgment , but i am certain now that austin powers would have also sucked rocks through bamboo shoots on the day i won the lottery . 
michael myers has taken a character that would barely have supported a five-minute sketch on saturday night live and stretched it to the length of a feature film , padding it out with toilet jokes and the sort of props-strategically-positioned-between-naked-actors-and-camera gags that benny hill got tired of fifteen years ago . 
the plot , what little there is of it : back in the swinging mod hep sixties ( i don't think i'm doing a disservice to the movie's attempted early look and feel by describing it that way ) , sexy british secret agent austin powers tangled with his nemesis dr . evil . 
evil launched himself into orbit and cryogenically forze himself to return decades later , when powers was out of the picture . 
powers also had himself frozen , and he wakes up to find the nineties a very hard time to deal with . 
the basic gag , that of powers' total inability to cope with the nineties , is not so much exhausted during the course of the movie as never even really dealt with . 
the bulk of the movie is taken up with dumb jokes of several basic rubrics : james bond gags ( of which this movie has no end , right down to the silly character names ) , inept slapstick , toilet humor , and strategically placed props . . . 
the movie's amazingly bereft of ideas , come to think of it , with a couple of bright exceptions . 
one is dr . evil's son -- there is a sidesplitting scene where father and son go to an encounter group , chaired by carrie fisher -- and the other is a throwaway gag where austin mimics various forms of transportation from behind a couch ( it's a visual gag -- hard to describe , and hard to recommend seeing the movie for ) . 
a lot of sixties kitsch has been resurrected and thrown on the screen for this movie , but it's desperate rather than clever . 
instead of skewering the whole thing , it's a rather bloodless and unfunny tribute . 
myers himself is also desperate : he's given an idea to play , not a character . 
plus , the attempts to make the character work by giving him a relationship with another sexy ( albeit " nineties " ) agent are a waste of time . 
i wanted to have the movie end with him trying yet again to get it on with her , only to have her deck him one . 
with a couple of exceptions , the movie misses all of its own best moments . 
the movie even looks cheesy , and not in a good way : i kept wondering if it had been transferred down from hi-def video or something , so grainy was the film stock in a good many scenes . 
the whole thing has the air of being done on the cheap . 
my definition of comedy is simply : did it make me laugh ? 
the few times that i laughed in austin powers were completely offset by the time i spent cringing and wanting out . 
the most damning thing i could say about the movie is that wayne and garth would most likely have shoved it into mike tyson's shorts and sent it sailing . 
battlefield earth is the worst film of 2000 , and i guarantee you that nothing else this year will even come close . 
in fact , i'll be surprised if i see anything this bad in the next ten years . 
based on the novel by scientology guru l . ron hubbard , battlefield earth begins and we immediately find out two pieces of key information . 
it's the year 3000 , and an alien race called the psychlos ( which sounds like a tag team of mexican wrestlers ) conquered our planet in nine minutes . 
ok , we are all of 10 seconds in and i have a zillion questions racing through my mind . 
when were we conquered ? 
the audience is led to believe that this happened about 1 , 000 years earlier , and if that is the case then we're going to get into a whole bunch of problems later ( trust me . . . 
keep reading ) . 
also , why don't we get to see earth get conquered ? 
how the hell do you make a popcorn sci-fi flick and not deliver the goods on the one event that sets up the film ? 
humans now live as cavemen or slave labor , and for the film's first act we focus on one particular cavemen group outside of denver , colorado . 
they grunt and groan and babble about monsters . 
so , when the psychlos conquered earth , were the only humans not captured a herd of newborn babies that crawled their way to safety in the hills ? 
none of these characters have any knowledge of the planet being conquered ( whenever that was ) . 
this is definitely not the way to start an action/sci-fi film . 
one of the humans wanders out into the wilderness and stumbles across what he thinks is a monster , and he begins to fight it . 
the " monster " turns out to be a dinosaur from an old miniature golf course . 
he turns around and sees all sorts of other characters from the golf course , with some shrubs growing over them . 
so , in 1 , 000 years this stupid little golf course has stood the test of time , with only a few weeds growing over it ? 
anyway , some of the humans are captured by the psychlos led by terl ( john travolta ) a smarmy and opportunistic alien planning on stealing a recently discovered gold deposit . 
the cavemen ( led by barry pepper ) are forced to do their bidding or whatever , but eventually they gain the upper hand and reclaim the planet , or something . 
so these cavemen are able to do what earth failed to do 1 , 000 years earlier ? 
and , we're supposed to believe that earth was conquered in nine minutes by a group of buffoonish aliens who can't even handle a few cavemen ? 
one of the ways the humans reclaim the planet is by taking control of abandoned air force jets and using them to fight the psychlos . 
so jets left unattended for 1 , 000 years are still able to fly ? 
please , if i leave my car unattended for two weeks i have to replace every fluid and hose under the hood . 
why did the psychlos leave jets around anyway ? 
shouldn't they have destroyed military installations during their massive nine minute campaign against us ? 
the psychlos refer to humans as " man animals " but yet dogs are still " dogs " . 
why aren't they " dog animals " ? 
the psychlos are after mining earth's precious resources , but for 1 , 000 years are unaware of fort knox ? 
why do i even care at this point ? 
i'm a fan of travolta's and i'm glad to see he's back on the a-list in hollywood ( despite the fact that he occasionally puts out crowd pleasing dreck like michael and phenomenon ) . 
but how did he possibly think this was a good movie ? 
and how did he think he was giving a good performance here ? 
he's more than capable of making a menacing villain ( see broken arrow and face/off ) but whenever his character came on screen i couldn't hold back my laughter . 
now despite the different facial features members of this alien race seem to have , travolta just looks like travolta . 
all of the other aliens have weird foreheads or other pointy bones on their face , but travolta just has a goatee . 
also , travolta's acts with a sort of phony upper-class snooty accent and constantly whines about bureaucratic nonsense back on his home world . 
ooooo , scary villain . 
as a producer he should know better and as an actor he should definitely know better . 
you can make a dumb but good sci-fi film ( i love independence day for example ) , but there is absolutely nothing entertaining about battlefield earth . 
i did everything i possibly could to stay awake during the screening . . . 
i cleaned my glasses , walked around the theater , made a grocery list , chose my lottery numbers for the week , replayed super bowl xxv in my head ( with commercials ) . . . 
and still was compelled to scrutinize the insides of my eyelids . 
by the time we actually reach the year 3000 , people should still be avoiding this film . 
folks , save your cash . . 
don't go see it , don't rent it , and don't buy it . 
you'd be more entertained by taking the money you'd use for this movie and just throwing it into the wind , watching it sail away ( hell , send it to us here at the jacksonville film journal . . . 
we'll entertain you plenty with that kind of money ) . 
unless of course you're just captivated by countless slow motion shots of barry pepper running , which is just about all you'll come away with from this movie . 
that , and a headache . 
[editor's note : for some reason though , the day after my screening i converted to scientology . 
i'm not sure why . . . 
something just made me feel compelled make the choice . ] 
jet li busted onto the american action movie scene , when he stole the show in 1998's lethal weapon 4 , with his wicked looks , his nasty moves and his undeniable charisma . 
it only took another two years for mega-producer joel silver to set him up in an all-american movie , primed to take over some of the empty action-hero seats left by alleged coke-head van damme and that pudgy guy named steven seagal . 
would this film take li past his rival asian action counterparts , namely chow yun-fat and jackie chan ? 
let's find out . 
plot : rival chinese and black gangster organizations fall further out of favor from one another , when members of their respective families start turning up dead . 
that's when badass jet li blasts into the picture to find out who the men were behind his brother's death and to exact some of his own style of revenge . 
critique : three words : not enough action ! 
simple enough ? 
not enough hong kong kickass jet li action to compensate for a horribly predictable screenplay , bad actors , crappy dialogue and oh-so many over-the-top melodramatic moments . 
and a romance angle ? 
why , one must ask . . . why ? 
i love fight scenes and i really dig jet li too , but this little ditty barely contained three memorable action sequences , and jet , well , the poor dude was barely in the movie . 
and i thought this was supposed to be his big break ? 
how 'bout giving the slickster some more opportunities to show us his kung-fu fighting chops , slap him in a few more scenes , and give him more chances to practice his acting/english abilities ? 
what a letdown . 
even black mask was more entertaining than this glossed up , empty shell of a film . 
in fact , i am sure that more time was spent gathering the " hits " for the soundtrack of this film , than were on the so-called " screenplay " . 
i felt like i was watching a soundtrack rather than a movie most of the time . 
the sad part about the bad script is that it wouldn't matter so much if the film actually had some decent actors spouting out the tacky lines . 
but no , save lindo and aaliyah , who weren't too shabby , i thought the rest of the cast was picked primarily from their inability to deliver lines convincingly . 
and what was the deal with the whole nfl franchise deal run by some 15-year old looking guy , acting like he's the overlord of a drug ring ? ! 
what a mess . 
then again , i don't want it to seem like i'm complaining solely about the story which was completely foreseeable , since we all go to see these movies for the action anyway , not the story . 
well , i guess that's what disappointed me the most out of this film . 
there were a couple of cool fight scenes with li , but simply not enough to satisfy my overall craving . 
also , as much as i love the way they incorporate wires and special effects in some of their stunts , a couple of the exaggerated fight scenes were simply too obvious a stunt . 
it should be seamless , fellas , not necessarily against the laws of gravity ! 
the one cool thing that was original in the movie was the way in which the director showed us some of the inside cracklings of the human body when penetrated by a blow , but that simple creative touch couldn't save the rest of this film's uninteresting plot movements . 
i'm disappointed for jet li that this film didn't give him the real opportunity to star in a good story with many great action scenes . 
hopefully , the next time will be a charm for this charismatic actor . 
for now , i just hope that for his sake , the film's title isn't a premonition of the movie's ultimate fate at the box-office . 
one night , during a torrential downpour that flooded the streets , we went to see -- what else -- hard rain . 
 " so , are we all going to die ? " 
the sheriff ( randy quaid ) asks in the story's opening line as he evacuates his flooded town . 
the answer is pretty much yes , but not nearly soon enough . 
and to add insult to injury , the supposedly dead , regretfully , often turn out not to be so . 
populating this bad tv-movie-of-the-week material are a host of talented actors . 
one can only hope they were rewarded handsomely for acting in this hopelessly muddled picture . 
besides the obvious hardships of acting most scenes while dog paddling in the water , they will all receive black marks on their records for appearing in this dismal movie . 
graham yost's script serves up one cliche after another for the actors , who thankfully managed to mumble quite a few of the lines . 
director mikael salomon's staging is so confusing that you may have trouble figuring out what is happening . 
the befuddled presentation is exacerbated by peter menzies , jr . 's dark and ugly cinematography . 
the plot concerns an armored car that gets stuck in the raging water . 
onboard are guards tom and his uncle charlie . 
christian slater , who is much better in his tender roles as in untamed heart , plays tom . 
edward asner drops by briefly to take on the role of the soon to be dead charlie . 
coming to their " rescue " is a gang headed by jim , played on autopilot by the great actor morgan freeman . 
he views the loot , three million dollars worth , as his retirement plan . 
the entire movie is one big watery chase with the sheriff and his posse tracking jim and his gang , who are in turn after tom . 
along the way , tom picks up a love interest in the person of a crucifix-weapon wielding woman named karen , played in a totally wasted performance by minnie driver . 
the action sequences are repetitive and without much interest . 
they do feature lots of explosions and gunfire to keep you awake . 
christopher young's emotionless score for the film has a single trait , ear-shattering loudness . 
the plot holes are as big as the ones in the dam that breaks , submerging the town . 
the characters have an infinite number of bullets and rarely do they have to bother reloading their guns . 
the weapons and the ammunition spend most of the time under water or being rained on but always fire perfectly . 
when one of the bad guys drops a gun into the water , it stays in the same place until much later when tom swims to get it , even though the swift water is so strong it is uprooting large trees . 
counting these improbabilities is one of the more enjoyable ways to spend your time as you wait for the characters to kill each other . 
the show has a single , but unprintable , good line . 
betty white plays an incessantly bossy wife , and , when her hen-pecked husband finally told her off , our audience roared with laughter . 
the show concludes with a sickening set of twists . 
the best that can be said of the picture is that it is merely stupefyingly awful as opposed to laughably bad . 
hard rain runs 1 : 37 . 
it is rated r for violence and would be fine for teenagers . 
 ( the two families behind us shockingly had a half-dozen preschoolers among them . ) 
it was with a huge lack of something to do that i decided to watch this on good old upn on sunday afternoon , when the only good things on tv are the second-rate movies they show ( some are good : they showed " total recall " before this one ) . 
if you know me , i think seagal is probably the most boring action star to ever live . 
and this includes keanu reeves . 
what do i hate about seagal ? 
i hate how he uses one facial expression for every single threatening and non-threatening situation ( the squint ) . 
i hate those scenes in every movie where he goes around , bullying people up , saying stupid lines with a brooklyn accent more fake than burt reynold's hairpiece in " boogie nights . " 
i despise how he never gets a bruise in any of his fights . 
i hate how every single plot twist leads to just a melodramatic fight between he and the chief villain . 
i hate his non-satirical messages ( in the beginning of this one , he slaps on a quote from arthur miller , which has nothing to do with the film , except it's about brooklyn where this film takes place ) . 
and i hate how he's so narcissistic that he thinks that he can actually fucking sing ( during the end credits , he has a good old hill billy rock tune sung and penned by him ) . 
sure , the guy's probably a nice guy in person ( i actually found him very non-threatening when he was on letterman not too long ago ) . 
but the guy makes worse films than reagan did . 
so what's the plot of this shit-terpiece ? 
well . . . something 
about him trying to catch a stupid-ass crook ( william forsythe ) who shot and killed his partner in broad daylight . 
i couldn't believe how bad this scene was - the guy was conveniently with his family so we get the maximum emotional effect ( ahem ! ) . 
and forsythe even said some stupid lines to him before he took off . 
i'm sorry , did anyone ever hear of concealing one's self ? 
so in comes ex-brooklynite seagal , who dedicates his life to catching this guy . 
and i just wished he had caught him in the beginning , then ended the film . 
but noooo , this drags on , as he bullies forsythe's family members ( including a stupid bar-owner , and none other than gina gershon as his other bar-owner sister ) . 
and forsythe more than once threatens his family . 
at one point , he actually comes to their house and stalks them like a non-threatening nicholson in " the shining " ( complete with them all hiding in the bathroom , but with an added bonus of one girl conveniently loosing her cool and screaming to give them away ) . 
seagal paints himself as a lovable person , with a son , and a fiancee . 
he even shows him hanging with his son , checking up on his homework , and then about to take him out for a bit of " catch , " when he's conveniently called away on assignment . 
i dunno about you , but playing " catch " with seagal was one of my childhood nightmares . 
he also shows him as that bad-ass he wants to be , with scenes of him bullying crooks around , and taking out people who are stupid enough to attack him even after he's unarmed a chinese guy swinging bats with a pool cue . 
serves them right . 
this film , as some of his do , has an interesting supporting cast of actors who are actually talented , but don't appear to be in this film . 
i already mentioned gina gershon ( who's pretty horrible in this one ) , as well as william forsythe , who over-acts terribly . 
i know this guy can act : he was awesome in " raising arizona " as goodman's partner in crime . 
but he's just awful here . 
jerry orbach gives the only credible performance in the film as the police chief who checks up on segal after things have gone down . 
why is he the only one who gives a good performance ? 
well , because his role is small enough and sporadic enough to not tarnish his credibility . 
he seems to be in here just to give it a cool " law and order " feeling ( even if it's not a " cool " feeling ) . 
and in cameos are b-rated erotic-thriller-cinemax-style stars , shannon whirry ( as " terry malloy , " which is more of a bad joke than a clever one ) and athena massey . 
oh ! 
and " er " 's julliana margiulles has two scenes . 
 " out for justice " just proves once again that american action films just suck . 
i know that there's such a good thing as good action - he's called john woo . 
but if you're in the mood for some good old no-brainer , fun-yet-dumb action , don't bother watching this . 
it's so stupid that it's boring . 
vampires starts out almost in the style of a spaghetti western with an attack on a small homestead in new mexico . 
the house has a nest of vampires and jack crow ( james woods ) is leading a team of vampire hunters in to clean them out . 
while the initial imagery is a little over-dramatic , it gives way to what is a fairly decent action sequence . 
that is enough action to last us a while and we could , director john carpenter would let us , get to a story line . 
but it is not very long and there is not much plot until the next big action scene . 
then there is only a bit more of plot before the next action scene after that . 
the plot is kept to a minimum and the interesting ideas in the plot really get the short end . 
and that is something of a pity because the film , based on the book vampire$ by john steakley , gives us a myth for the origins of vampires and explains why vampires are so intertwined with religious imagery . 
this could be an interesting departure from the standard vampire film , but carpenter decides to tell us about it rather than to show it . 
what carpenter saves his serious screen time for a sequence of spectacular fights between hunters and vampires . 
there is a lot of fighting and lots of gore . 
anything intriguing is kept to a minimum to so it does not get in the way of pleasing the action film fans . 
this has not always been carpenter's style . 
his 1981 version of the thing has action but also challenges the viewer to do a little thinking about the film's central science fictional question . 
jack crow heads a vampire swat team , cleaning up nests of vampires with high-tech spears and crossbows . 
in the early part of the film his team is wiped out by a particularly mean vampire valek ( thomas ian griffith ) who has been tipped off to who crow is . 
now crow team is gone and he is down to himself and his sidekick tony montoya ( daniel baldwin ) . 
to make matters worse , he does not know the people on his own side , tony and his backers , he can trust . 
meanwhile jack is sure the vampires are looking for something that must be hidden somewhere here in new mexico . 
if this is sounding like a very tired police corruption plot with a few obvious substitutions , that's exactly what it is . 
the same story looks just as well with two partner cops looking for a gang of hood who are themselves looking for a packet of heroin . 
but carpenter goes against a familiar principle of film : show people , don't tell them . 
just about everything in the plot other than the fights we are told about in the dialog and not shown . 
fundamental questions in the plot like where does crow get his funding , why are the vampires in new mexico--what do they want and why do they want it , what is the connection of the vampires and the catholic church , how did crow come to be a vampire hunter and why devote his life to it ? 
the answers to any of these questions could have been dramatized , but instead are revealed through dialog . 
now if all this was not bad enough , carpenter misuses the james wood persona . 
woods plays a particular sort of cool lowlife very well . 
but carpenter leads off the film by having woods do some sergio-leone- style mythic posturing . 
while his crew prepares for an attack he stands staring fixedly through shades at the house that will be his target . 
woods does not work as a larger than life mythic hero . 
that is not his style and it just does not work very well . 
there are some simple things that carpenter should be looking for as director that he misses . 
in one scene we are looking at a motel room with dead people on the floor . 
one female corpse is on the floor in front of a chair so that there is about an inch of daylight between her and the chair . 
as the actress breathes the gap widening and narrowing makes it obvious her arm is moving up and down . 
one also wonders how the existence of vampires is kept secret . 
these vampires do not maintain a low profile . 
there are arguably logical flaws in the film . 
there is some question in my mind whether carpenter has a consistent policy on what effect bullets have on vampires . 
it would take some rationalization to explain why in some scenes sunlight has a dramatic effect on vampires , yet in a scene toward the end a vampire can walk under a burned roof that lets him be swept by beams of sunlight . 
i suspect that the book on which this film was based was better thought out . 
while i might recommend this film to an action audience i would say that what i look for in a vampire film vampires rates a 4 on the 0 to 10 scale and a 0 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
perhaps i will read the book . 
when considering david fincher's latest film , " the game " , four words come to mind . 
 " don't believe the hype . " 
this michael douglas vehicle , from the director of " seven " , isn't nearly as clever or innovatively suspenseful as it would have us believe . 
the film draws us in with an intriguing concept ( aided no doubt by the riveting trailer ) where a jaded millionaire ( douglas ) is presented with the opportunity to enter into a living fantasy . 
this isn't simply virtual reality . 
this is real life with a deadly twist . 
on his 48th birthday , nicholas van orton ( douglas ) is invited to dinner by his underachieving younger brother , conrad ( sean penn ) . 
conrad has a special birthday present for his brother . 
he hands nicholas a gift certificate and tells him to contact a company called consumer recreation services . 
 " they make your life fun , " conrad tells him . 
nicholas humors his brother , telling him he'll call , but it's clear he has no time for any foolish , " fantasy role-playing , " as he calls it . 
then , for reasons that are never really made clear , nicholas decides to go to crs and see what they're all about . 
he ends up spending a whole day going through their screening process , which to me made no sense considering the tight schedule he keeps claiming to have . 
nevertheless , when it seems nicholas has been rejected as a crs client , the weird things start happening . 
of course , when we've only covered about 30 minutes of screen time , what else should we expect . 
douglas has built his modern career around playing powerful , violent and unlikable men being manipulated by unseen hands . 
one of those films , " basic instinct " , came from the creative minds of writer , joe eszterhas and director , paul verhoeven . 
the premise of " the game , " is not unlike the concept of another verhoeven film , " total recall . " 
in that case , the premise was implanting someone else's memories as a way to enhance one's own life through a dream vacation . 
yet , in both films , the real goal is to create a vicarious bond with the audience . 
we live the adventure along with the protagonist , reacting to each twist and turn . 
in theory , the key to the suspense is not being to tell what is real and what isn't . 
all we can do is hang on until the end of the ride , when the truth is finally revealed . 
now , for those of you who forgot , let me say this again . 
 " don't believe the hype . " 
 " the game " is not a thrilling roller coaster ride . 
as a suspense-thriller , it doesn't do much but spin in circles . 
by the third reel , i was fighting back sleep and checking my watch as i endured the predictable plot . 
is it any wonder douglas won't be able to resist the charms of a mysterious , potentially life-threatening blonde ( ever heard of glenn close ? 
no ? well , how about sharon stone ? 
thought so ) . 
if anything in this film surprises you at all , i would guess you haven't seen that many films . 
there is no suspense here . 
trust me , i looked hard to find some . 
i had to settle for contrived gimmicks and ridiculously implausible situations . 
fincher aim's for hitchcock but lands somewhere just north of joe eszterhas . 
there are those that might say " the game " is not intended to be viewed literally . 
i would submit that is exactly the way i tried to view the film . 
the film simply does not have the teeth to bite into any real psychological issues . 
there is a moment early in the film where van orton , realizing his game has begun , smiles as he walks through the airport trying to figure out who's in on the whole thing . 
he is charged by his paranoia . 
he is looking at the world through new eyes . 
it is the last thought-provoking moment in the film . 
from there on , the director only wants to stay a step ahead of us . 
any significant archetype that is set up in the beginning of the film is simply turned into a plot device . 
at the outset , we're told each " game " is tailored to the individual . 
ultimately , this " game " is supposed to work like a crucible , trying this obscenely wealthy and emotionally detached aristocrat by fire , proving his soul . 
yet , as douglas endures his personal gauntlet , we're given very few pieces of the puzzle to illuminate us on who this man really is . 
i wanted to like this film more than i did . 
i look at it as just anothergreat idea , poorly realized . 
i can think of at least two other superior films where watching the film didn't mean we were seeing what was really happening . 
bryan singer's " the usual suspects " for one , a film that was truly unique in its ability to get you lost in the details before pulling back to show you the full masterpiece on the canvas . 
also , there is the underrated " jacob's ladder , " with tim robbins , a film that really has to be watched twice before you recognize the significance of all its symbolism . 
here are two examples of films that don't simply manipulate for manipulations' sake . 
there are films that use their labyrinth structure to lead us to a meaningful place . 
one major issue that comes up in " the game " is whether or not the whole " illusion " is just a highly sophisticated con game . 
well , i can tell you right now , after you've spent your $7 dollars , you may be asking yourself the same thing . 
weighed down by tired plot lines and spielberg's reliance on formulas , _saving private ryan_ is a mediocre film which nods in the direction of realism before descending into an abyss of cliches . 
there ought to be a law against steven spielberg making movies about truly serious topics . 
spielberg's greatest strength as a director is the polished , formulaic way in which every aspect of the film falls carefully into place to make a perfect story . 
but for a topic of such weight as combat in the second world war ( or the holocaust ) this technique backfires , for it creates coherent , comprehensible and redemptive narratives out of events whose size , complexity and evil are utterly beyond the reach of human ken . 
in this way spielberg trivializes the awesome evil of the stories he films . 
_saving private ryan_ tells the story of eight men who have been detailed on a " pr mission " to pull a young man , ryan ( whose three other brothers were just killed in fighting elsewhere ) out of combat on the normandy front just after d-day . 
ryan is a paratrooper who dropped behind enemy lines the night before the landings and became separated from his fellow soldiers . 
the search for him takes the eight soldiers across the hellish terrain of world war ii combat in france . 
there's no denying spielberg came within shouting distance of making a great war movie . 
the equipment , uniforms and weapons are superbly done . 
the opening sequence , in which captain miller ( tom hanks ) leads his men onto omaha beach , is quite possibly the closest anyone has come to actually capturing the unendurably savage intensity of modern infantry combat . 
another pleasing aspect of the film is spielberg's brave depiction of scenes largely unknown to american audiences , such as the shooting of prisoners by allied soldiers , the banality of death in combat , the routine foul-ups in the execution of the war , and the cynicism of the troops . 
the technical side of the film is peerless , as always . 
the camera work is magnificent , the pacing perfect , the sets convincing , the directing without flaw . 
hanks will no doubt be nominated for an oscar for his performance , which was utterly convincing , and the supporting cast was excellent , though ted danson seems a mite out of place as a paratroop colonel . 
yet the attempt at a realistic depiction of combat falls flat on its face because realism is not something which can be represented by single instances or events . 
it has to thoroughly permeate the context at every level of the film , or the story fails to convince . 
throughout the movie spielberg repeatedly showed only single examples of the grotesque wounds produced by modern mechanized devices ( exception : men are shown burning to death with relative frequency ) . 
for example , we see only one man with guts spilled out on the ground . 
here and there men lose limbs ; in one scene miller is pulling a man to safety , there's an explosion , and miller looks back to see he is only pulling half a man . 
but the rest of the corpses are remarkably intact . 
there are no shoes with only feet in them , no limbs scattered everywhere , no torsos without limbs , no charred corpses , and most importantly , all corpses have heads ( in fairness there are a smattering of wicked head wounds ) . 
the relentless dehumanization of the war , in which even corpses failed to retain any indentity , is soft-pedaled in the film . 
ultimately , _saving private ryan_ bows to both hollywood convention and the unwritten rules of wartime photography in its portrayal of wounds and death in war . 
rather than saying _saving private ryan_ is " realistic , " it would be better to describe it as " having realistic moments . " 
another aspect of the " hollywoodization " of the war is the lack of realistic dialogue and in particular , the lack of swearing . 
anyone familiar with the literature on the behavior of the men during the war , such as fussell's superb _wartime : understanding and behavior in the second world war_ ( which has an extensive discussion on swearing ) , knows that the troops swore fluently and without letup . 
 " who is this private ryan that we have to die for him ? " 
asks one infantrymen in the group of eight . 
rendered in wartime demotic , that should have been expressed as " who is this little pecker that we have to get our dicks shot off for him ? " 
or some variant thereof . 
conversations should have been literally sprinkled with the " f " word , and largely about ( the search for ) food and sex . 
this is all the more inexplicable because the movie already had an " r " rating due to violence , so swearing could not possibly have been eliminated to make it a family film . 
however , the most troubling aspect of the film is the spielbergization of the topic . 
the most intense hell humans have ever created for themselves is not emotionally wrenching enough for steven spielberg . 
he cannot just cede control to the material ; he has to be bigger than it . 
as if afraid to let the viewer find their own ( perhaps unsettled and not entirely clear ) emotional foothold in the material , spielberg has to package it in hallmark moments to give the war a meaning and coherence it never had : the opening and closing scenes of ryan and his family in the war cemetary ( reminscent of the closing scene from _schindler's list ) , the saccharine exchange between ryan and his wife at the close ( every bit as bad as schindler's monologue about how his car , tiepin or ring could have saved another jew ) , quotes from abraham lincoln and emerson , captain miller's last words to private ryan , and an unbelievable storyline in which a prisoner whom they free earlier in the movie comes back to kill the captain . 
that particular subplot is so hokey , so predictable , it nigh on ruins the film . 
nowhere in the film is there a resolute depiction of the meaninglessness , stupidity and waste which characterized the experience of war to the men who actually fought in combat ( imagine if miller had been killed by friendly fire or collateral damage ) . 
because of its failure to mine deeply into the terrible realities of world war ii , _saving private ryan_ can only pan for small truths in the shallows . 
 . 
if you're going to make a two-hour hollywood in-joke , why bother releasing it to the general public ? 
if you're going to create a film that will appeal primarily to big-name actors and people who know woody allen , then why waste the time of the rest of us peons by playing it in theaters ? 
while watching celebrity , i realized that allen had only marginal interest in creating a story about real people . 
what he really wanted to do was continue on his recent kick of conceited self-deprecation . 
celebrity is yet another film in which allen tells a story about himself , living in a world that he's familiar with , dealing with people like the ones he actually knows . 
allen recruited poor kenneth branagh to bumble through this picture , in an imitation of allen so perfect that it almost made me like the film more . 
branagh plays lee simon , a journalist-turned-screenwriter who divorces his wife , robin ( judy davis ) , shacks up with some hot women ( famke janssen , charlize theron , winona ryder ) , and goes about trying to get big stars ( melanie griffith , leonardo dicaprio ) to read his script about an armored car robbery . 
the usual elements of recent allen films are all here , including the sexual insecurity of the main character , lots of self-loathing women , and a tiring continuum of episodes that are only loosely related to one another . 
unless you work in the film industry or know woody allen personally , it's not likely that you'll find a whole lot of interest in celebrity . 
aside from all the in-jokes , the story falls far short of compelling , and the characters are all empty and lifeless . 
branagh proves once again that he's a superb performer , nailing his imitation of allen flawlessly . 
the problem is that he's the same character allen always plays , a character who's getting more than a little dull to watch . 
i mean , come on , how many times have you seen this guy ? 
-- he hates his work , and he can't be satisfied by any one woman , and , at the end of the movie , nothing has been solved . 
he brings all of his problems upon himself ( crashing his car because he's receiving fellatio , and other such stunts ) , so it's pretty hard to care about him . 
in addition , isn't allen capable of creating characters who aren't just like him ? 
i know he is , but he didn't do it in celebrity . 
the vacant emotional attachment with the main character is not recaptured in the supporting performances . 
davis , playing the same woman with low self-esteem that she played in deconstructing harry , has a few touching moments , but ends up the same despicable celebrity-type that fills the rest of the movie . 
some of the actresses are saved because of their beauty -- theron and ryder , especially -- but they're not likable people . 
only famke janssen , as a book editor interested in simon's new novel , has any life . 
the men in the picture don't do much better -- joe mantegna is pretty dull as the man who remarries robin , while dicaprio , as a christian slater/johnny depp-type spoiled young actor , is funny but disengaging . 
what's really insulting about celebrity is how dull and standard its " themes " are . 
allen seems to think that he's making an insightful movie about the way " normal " people look at celebrities . 
the main problem with this is that the character with whom we're supposed to identify , simon , is not a " normal " guy -- he's just as entrenched in the hollywood image as the rest of the characters . 
the other problem is that the image we get of these celebrities is no more enlightening than the view the media gives us -- none of them register as realistic , interesting characters ; they mostly just function as set pieces for boring dialogue . 
in addition , allen decides he needs a scene in which the theme is expressed explicitly ( robin , in this scene , says something like , " it's interesting to see the way we all look at the people we celebrate ! " ) . 
celebrity is arguably allen's biggest misfire to date . 
it does have a few good scenes -- theron's super-orgasmic model character is kind of funny , and the last scene might have been moving had the rest of the film shown us a character or two . 
but celebrity is a failure at the core , unless allen's point was to make a self-indulgent movie about himself and his friends . 
if he wanted to make his audience feel like they were on the outside of a big joke , then he succeeded in that . 
i , for one , don't enjoy feeling like an outsider . 
it used to be that not just anyone could become a vampire . 
usually , you had to be an aristocrat - a count such as dracula or karnstein . 
to qualify , you'd have to have a modicum of sophistication , so you'd at least look cool - or suave - when biting into some young damsel's throat . 
but today , in our overly politically correct world , any scuzzy-looking , long-haired , unshaven lout or any spiked-haired harridans can put the bite on you . 
by the same token , to be a vampire hunter , one had to have some sort of medical training and knowledge of the occult or maybe perhaps be some sort of professional soldier , or at least one who retired with honors . 
not in these times . 
all you need are some sharp weapons , some bullets forged from silver and any yahoo can be a buffy - or a blade . 
without sounding elitist , the fear of vampires has greatly diminished because of this lack of exclusivity . 
which brings us to blade , the latest in a long line of vampire movies in which , it seems , half the population is putting the bite on the other half . 
not only are there thousands of vampires , but they seem to move from city to city , pay off police departments and , most importantly , establish their own exclusive after-hours raves in which the highlight is the sprinkler system going off and dousing all the occupants in a blood shower . 
with all that blood , you wonder why they have to hunt for victims . 
you also wonder when they get the time to get their clothes dry-cleaned and why no cleaner ever complains about all the bloodstains . 
blade , which is based on a marvel comic book character , is , like a comic book , all visual . 
the plot is basically blade repetitiously slashing his way through the vampire army seeking their leader , deacon frost . 
it's all hokum and nonsense , of course . 
but the filmmakers play it straight . 
unfortunately , at least at the advance screening i attended , the audience didn't see it that way and laughed through much of the proceedings . 
you know a movie is in trouble when the scenes of blood and gore that should elicit screams of fright instead evoke peels of laughter . 
another tell-tale sign is when the audience seems to be admiring the hero's costume more than the hero . 
also it seems it's not enough for today's vampire merely to have fangs . 
he must also be proficient in the martial arts . 
why a supernatural being , one of the undead , needs such skills is beyond me . 
 ( of course , this concept dates to the 1974 hammer films-run run shaw production of legend of the seven golden vampires , in which dracula is defeated by seven karate-chopping siblings . ) 
wesley snipes is buff as blade . 
he growls his lines -the few he has - and spends most of the time glowering - as if he was suffering from indigestion or having second thoughts about starring in and co-producing this turkey . 
blade is just another example of how the vampire film , a once honorable member of the horror family , has gone downhill . 
this dud mostly makes you yearn for those quaint old days when christopher lee could be stopped just by dangling a crucifix in his face . 
today's vampires lack the panache , the style of a bela lugosi or a christopher lee . 
they are not even worthy enough to carry those great bloodsuckers' capes . 
they are more farcical than frightful . 
this whole enterprise is one dull blade that could have used lots of sharpening . 
hav plenty , as we are told in the beginning and reminded during the film , is a true story . 
life itself is a series of true stories , but most are not movie material . 
as scripted , directed , and acted by cinematic newcomer christopher scott cherot , hav plenty limps along at best . 
its dialog is so stilted - " you know what they say , 'no women ; no cry . ' " 
- that the actors are content to read the screenplay rather than invest much energy in trying to act it . 
in the story , lee plenty ( cherot ) is a 28-year-old author and teaching assistant . 
the movie , which happens mainly over the new year's holiday , consists of a series of incidents in which various single and married women try to kiss lee or take him to bed . 
since he consistently refuses , caroline gooden ( tammi katherine jones ) figures that he must be gay . 
eventually he and havilland " hav " savage ( chenoa maxwell ) get together , proving that he wasn't gay after all , just picky . 
sexy women can sit on his lap and ask him to go to bed with them , but he will not even kiss them . 
he's a man who knows his mind , which he frequently shares directly with the audience in a series of trite and overly cute monologues . 
filled with wealthy african-americans , the story is closest in tone to love jones , which was better . 
hav plenty's story doesn't go anywhere . 
at the end it subjects us to lee plenty's new film , which is a movie of the movie we've just seen , but with even worse acting . 
 " remember folks that , as outrageous as this all seems , this is a true story . " 
hav tells the camera , but the problem is that it's not outrageous at all or even the least bit interesting . 
hav plenty isn't so much a bad film as it is a total waste of the audience's time . 
hav plenty runs 1 : 32 . 
it is rated r for profanity and would be fine for most teenagers . 
it seems that i've stopped enjoying movies that should be fun to watch . 
take payback , for example , a movie that most people seem to like . 
however , it's horrible schlock , straight out of hollywood's vast talent for sucking creativity out of movies . 
it was written and directed by a guy who should have done better ; however , maybe he did do better , after all , 30 percent of the movie isn't his own . 
mel gibson , that hollywood zombie , decided he didn't like the ending and had another director reshoot it . 
what a crock . 
if you sign on to do a movie , then do it the way the script calls for . 
why film a movie and then look at it later and say , - no , i changed my mind , i don't like the ending . 
you're fired . 
let's get someone else to do it . 
- i suppose honor is dead in hollywood . 
the end of the film is , of course , hollywoodized . 
which is to say that it's happy and the guy you root for beats impossible odds to win his prize . 
in this case , as is most victories in hollywood movies , gibson's prize is a blond and money . 
i miss originality in film , i really do . 
i think audiences are so starved for it that they'll flop down a lot of money in hopes that a movie will be original . 
payback's tagline - get ready to root for the bad guy - promised an original idea , but it was far from the truth . 
while gibson's character certainly broke the law , he was a character that had honor ( odd that gibson himself seems to have very little of it ) , wouldn't kill in front of children and protects his blond woman . 
there's nothing bad about him - he's a hollywood character , a person who could never exist in real life . 
and gibson knows it - he spends his time trying to act like a " bad guy " , and instead comes off as pretentious and arrogant . 
the story involves gibson being double-crossed by his partner ( who is a real bad guy , which made me wish that we could root for him ) over $70 , 000 . 
gibson recovers from multiple gunshots , is pissed ( naturally ) , and will do whatever it takes to get the exact amount of money back - no more , no less . 
he makes a point of it that it's strictly 70 grand . 
a real bad guy would have made his ex-partner pay 25% interest . 
this idea is completely stretched out . 
gibson ends up going after his partner and the chicago mafia that his partner is affiliated with . 
what i didn't understand - this is the chicago mafia . 
$70 , 000 is like spare change to them . 
they'd probably just pay the guy rather than go through the trouble of dealing with him . 
i think they'd respect a guy going through this much trouble for a simple $70 , 000 . 
maybe i'm being too hard on the movie . 
perhaps the filmmakers were just trying to make a simple popcorn movie . 
i read roger ebert's review and he liked gibson in the role because he is a comic at heart playing a bad guy . 
that's why we're allowed to root for him . 
and it's true - gibson walks the movie as if he's smiling at a joke he just heard . 
but he's wrong here . 
i wanted a lee marvin or old-time clint eastwood or somebody who wasn't a comic , just an ass kicker . 
as a side note , i've just checked the internet movie database and discovered that i am the 38th person to post a newsgroup review of payback . 
after this many reviews , why would anyone want to read this ? 
really , i don't care . 
i'm just trying to gain membership into the on-line film critics society by posting as many reviews as i can . 
note : some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers . 
be forewarned . 
 " quick , robin ! 
the anti-shark repellant ! " 
- adam west in the 1966 batman feature film , casually kicking at a pathetic-looking rubber shark attached to his leg 
i had never thought that an entry in the modern incarnation of the batman feature film would approach this level of campiness , but in many instances batman and robin nears , and at some point even exceeds this standard . 
this is a disasterously bad film , easily the worst in the series to date , and fairly epitomizes a cinematic definition of the word excessive - it's loud , garish , and obnoxious , with pointless , gratuitous action sequences and set pieces which clutter up the screen with elaborate production design to the point of overkill . 
batman and robin features the caped crusaders ( george clooney debuting as batman , with chris o'donnell returing as robin ) squaring off against another bevy of chemically-induced villains - the nefarious ice-cold mr . freeze ( arnold schwarzenegger ) , armed with a weapon which freezes everything in its sights , and the slinky poison ivy ( uma thurman ) , who has the ability to blow powerful love dust into the faces of men in order so that they will fall helplessly in love with her ( not that the dust is really necessary to accomplish this result , but whatever ) , and then dispatch them with a poisoned kiss . 
by ivy's side is the giant steroid monster bane ( jeep swanson ) , a grunting hulk of a beast . 
the villains' goals are noble ones - freeze steals diamonds to power his climate suit ( in order to keep his body temperature at zero degrees ) , so that he can survive in order to devise a cure for his beloved wife ( vendela ) , dying of a degenerative disease and frozen in suspended animation , and ivy's intent is to restore the dominance of plant life on earth , albeit by destroying all human life . 
meanwhile , on the homefront , life at wayne manor is thrown into upheaval by the illness of butler alfred pennyworth ( michael gough ) , and the arrival of his niece barbara ( alicia silverstone ) . 
akiva goldsman's screenplay for the film is ridiculous and laughably bad , with astonishingly terrible dialogue , lame jokes , and an awful by-the-number plot which simply coasts along and fails to generate any genuine excitement . 
it makes goldsman's screenplay of batman forever , which i thought was dreadful , look positively inspired in comparison . 
i am still astonished that a cheesy plot device which i'd seen used in - no joke - an episode of gilligan's island somehow make its way into a multimillion dollar blockbuster production . 
joel schumacher's direction of batman and robin is horrific , with a terrible balance of flashiness over substance . 
there is a clear conceit towards neon in this film , even moreso than with his previous batman forever , with the revamped batcave helpfully sporting gigantic glowing emblems for the dynamic duo ( just in case , i suppose , if they ever happen to forget that the batcave is the headquarters of batman and robin ) , and with neon prominently figuring in an utterly-pointless fight sequence with bane and a street gang over ivy's chosen new abode . 
another action sequence which fails to serve any useful point other than to chew up five minutes of screentime involves an incredibly uninvolving late-night motorcycle race with barbara and some gotham goons . 
mr . schumacher's focus for batman and robin appears to be to make the film as visually striking as possible , to the detriment of the story - there are drastic shifts in the tone of the film between all-out camp and heartfelt drama , with the latter completely unconvincing and ineffective . 
it is perhaps not the most promising of signs when the group i was with burst out laughing within twenty seconds of the film's opening , even before a single line of dialogue had been uttered . 
is batman and robin supposed to be campy ? 
i think it is - it's hard to imagine that the filmmakers could have intended many parts of the film to be taken at all seriously . 
 ( one of my favourites was when bane helpfully grunted " bomb ! " 
each time he laid down an explosive device in the gotham observatory . ) 
is it supposed to be as overly campy as it turned out to be ? 
i somehow doubt it - the subplot involving afred is delivered so solemnly and with such graveness that the impression is made that the film isn't attempting to be the utter farce which it is . 
arnold schwarzenegger is top-billed in the film as the villainous mr . freeze , and is bland and uninteresting , perhaps the worst thing that a villain can be . 
mr . schwarzenegger's attempts to be menacing are laughable , and his attempts at conveying pathos are laughable ; frankly , everything he does onscreen is laughable . 
by the end of the film , i was stifling a chuckle every time he simply appeared onscreen . 
the bulk of his performance consists of uttering near-unintelligble puns and one-liners featuring every possible permutation of " cool ! " 
in the least inventive way . 
george clooney has been given very little to do in batman and robin , being overshadowed by the villains , and consequently he looks rather uncomfortable in the film . 
his batman is hardly an imposing figure . 
chris o'donnell is unimpressive in a one-note performance , while alicia silverstone lackadasically fails to make any impression at all . 
the film's one saving grace ? 
undoubtably uma thurman's entertaining performance as sexy villainess poison ivy . 
her work in batman and robin is certainly over-the-top , but in a controlled fashion which works splendidly within the tone of the film . 
ms . thurman's comic timing is impeccable , and reminds us that it takes skilled performers to make campiness work successfully . 
 ( i'm already starting to positively reassess jim carrey's performance in batman forever . ) 
her amusing poison ivy is the most entertaining character in the film , and when she's offscreen the film greatly suffers . 
i figure that if one has to die , being kissed to death by uma thurman isn't a half-bad way to go . 
while batman and robin was hardly a ride of pulse-pounding excitement , i must admit that i was not bored watching it , although i did glance at my watch repeatedly through the screening - my attention was kept through anticipation of the utterance of yet another terrible pun or one-liner , and by awaiting yet another scene to fall flat . 
it's been a long time since i've laughed so much at a movie . 
 " at " , of course , is the operative word . 
everything about this ninth trek movie seems on the cheap , from the roger corman-grade special effects to its highly derivative and ugly ad campaign ( the poster is nearly identical to that of star trek vi : the undiscovered country ) . 
but piller's not-quite-half-baked screenplay should ultimately claim responsibility for insurrection's failure . 
i'm about to give the same advice to rick berman and co . 
as i've given to the financiers of james bond movies : it's time to breathe life into this workhorse by hiring solid genre writers and a real director . 
 ( while we're at it , put that visor back on laforge ! ) 
for three hundred years , the ba'ku species ( who look just like humans ) have lived on a ringed-planet that might as well be called the fountain of youth . 
six hundred of them occupy the briar patch , the area affected by metaphasic radition , a positive energy that reverses the aging process in the elderly . 
but evil ru'afo ( this is probably abraham's last stop before performing " amadeus " at a dinner theatre near you ) , leader of the son'a ( who look just like burn victims after reconstructive surgery ) , wants to relocate the ba'ku and movie his people onto the briar patch in their place , in order to replenish his dying breed . 
the federation is all for this , but picard feels this is a direct violation of the prime directive : to not interfere with the development of an alien race . 
 ( never mind that the ba'ku didn't exactly evolve-they went wandering in the universe one day and stumbled upon the magic world . ) 
every time frakes gives an interview lately , he seems to top whatever ludicrous statement he last gave regarding this installment . 
he has called it a comedy , a thinking man's picture , a throwback to the old series , and , most grievously , he has likened it to a john ford western . 
 ( i presume that's some john ford he went to school with , not the director of the searchers . ) 
he has also gone on record as saying paramount recut the film from his version . 
that's no excuse-someone generated this footage . 
muddy cinematography and sitcom sets are the least of its problems ; star trek : insurrection appears to have been beamed in from the planet plotholia . 
consider such curiosities . . . 
picard's love interest , anij ( donna murphy ) , can slow things down by staring at them ( such as a waterfall or falling rocks ) -her scientific explanation for this ? 
 " don't ask . " 
worf gets a pimple ( he's re-experiencing klingon puberty thanks to the time-defying atmosphere ) , laforge regains his eyesight ( trust me , levar burton's real eyes are scarier than those electronic lenses he wore in first contact ) and troi brags about her firm boobs , but picard remains as bald as an android's butt . 
most suspiciously , what exactly is the problem with letting this endangered race have a little fun in the sun ? 
the filmmakers cloud the issue with some nonsense about a family feud of sorts , and they also turn ru'afo into a completely power-mad superfreak , just so the characters will have something to do in the climax . 
 ( and if you've seen return of the jedi , you've seen the ending of this movie . ) 
didn't picard himself previously disobey the prime directive when he prevented the borg from assimilating millions ? 
frakes lucked out with first contact , and repeat viewings of that film reveal the seeds of what went wrong in his direction of insurrection : he has no sense of comic timing , and he mines for acting chemistry where none exists . 
 ( take a look at the painful " troi gets drunk " scene in fc and you'll get the general idea of insurrection's unsuccessfully jokey and hollow tone . ) 
even the worst shatner and co . 
treks , like the final frontier , maintained a watchability thanks to the effortless , charming comaraderie between kirk , spock , and bones . 
neither first contact nor insurrection has any idea what to do with crusher ( gates mcfadden , whom i must say maintains a fabulous physique ) , troi , or laforge . 
and all three next generation films spend too much time on data , who is the franchise's answer to urkel . 
need a cheap laugh ? 
have data say something sexual , or start singing , or lift up a four hundred pound boulder as if it's the hunk of styrofoam it really is . 
here's my proposed title for number 10 : data star data trek : data data data data data . 
in this movie , data will become preoccupied with learning to blow his nose , while crusher and troi watch silently from 500 yards away and laforge points his sinister gaze at the android in doubly robotic observation . 
star trek : insurrection had one nice , eerie , silent moment that hints at a better , darker film . 
i'm not saying all of them should be star trek ii : the wrath of khan , but this one boldly went where no movie should go again . 
this is one of the worst big-screen film experiences i've had for a while . 
with this film , plus `showgirls' and `basic instinct' , paul verhoeven has stamped himself as currently one of the worst blockbuster directors . 
his celebrated film `total recall' was ? i admit ? successfully scripted , but it nonetheless contained directorial flaws . 
obviously nobody wanted to invest too much money in a production from someone like verhoeven , the result being that much of the special effects in `starship' seemed fake . 
but not everything bad in the film was the director's fault , even though he was one of the guys who employed the actors . 
it is surprising that none of the actors received nominations for the razzie awards ( i expected five for the acting categories ) . 
casserole vanity devoid , dense ribald , dingy miasma , and jackass bushy are in serious need of acting school . 
no , they have to pass primary school drama classes first . 
while `total' was written well , `starship' is purely pathetic . 
all right , it is supposed to be a fast-paced entertainment film , and you're supposed to turn off your intellect ( completely ) and enjoy the action sequences and special effects ( that is , guts and gore ) . 
as a matter of fact , i found the activity incredibly boring , a complete waste of more than two hours . 
half of the film was a bad episode of `beverly hills 90210' ( dina meyer was in " beverly hills " ) , while another quarter was simply nothing ( things like presenting irrelevant information in an irritating way on the web ) , and the rest was a display of humans fighting computer-generated images . 
the battles were all the same ? jumping around , shoot or get stabbed ? and on barren planets that only had giant insects . 
there weren't even any stunts , which i consider slightly more exciting than pictures running around . 
i wonder what the insects eat , if there's nothing but them on the planets ? 
there is so much laughable treatment in this film , and it is frankly not amusing when jokes are intended . 
this type of story is obviously aimed at 10-year-olds , who can't see it anyway because of the violence and some sexuality . 
but then , there are always 16-year-olds who have that frame of mind . 
the pointless plot begins when johnny's ( vanity devoid ) girlfriend carmen ( richards ) decides that she wants to join the troopers to fight the insects who are throwing asteroids at earth . 
johnny then signs up as a trooper also , after an overacted argument with his parents . 
but there is another girl , dizzy ( meyer ) , who likes johnny and then there is another boy who likes carmen , which results in a love quadrangle , which isn't better , because it means augmented worse-than-stereotyped soap opera , increased bitchiness , and more bad beverly hills + melrose . 
and the result of this love quadrangle at the end is also rather stupid . 
anyway , getting back to the thing you might call plot , johnny is too stupid to be a pilot and has to join the infantry , while his girl and the other dude are in the same league . 
dizzy comes chasing johnny and joins the infantry also . 
they then start training , which contains what roger ebert calls ips ( idiot plot syndrome , moments when only an idiot would have made such obvious mistakes ) , then real combat . 
and guess what ? 
that's about as complex as it gets . 
oh , and one of their friends , carl ( neil patrick harris a . k . a . doogie howser m . d . ) , becomes involved in war intelligence , and his abilities at the end are really corny and make me want to spray insecticide on someone for it . 
he's my fifth nom for a razzie . 
the troopers fight , fall in love , die , kill , and try to act . 
naturally , they win , or sort of half-win . 
of course , in between ( and at the end ) there are soldiers chatting and smiling while carrying grievous wounds caused by bug legs . 
the bugs also suffer from ips : why would you release hold of your captive before killing it ? 
isn't it also amazing that earthlings haven't invented better hand-held weapons by then ? 
the only question that remains is why i gave it one star instead of zero . 
well , maybe a-quarter ( of a star ) for the originality of the co-sex shower scene and the ( very ) brief moments of suspense , another quarter for copying `zulu' and letting the good guys ( the bugs ) win , and half a star for the sucking-out of the brain of one of those people who call themselves actors ( but there should have been more , the troopers deserved to die ) . 
phew , what a mess ! 
for his fifth collaboration with director rich- ard donner ( lethal weapon i-iii , maverick ) , mel gibson plays a motormouth , maybe mentally ill new york city cabbie , jerry , whose wild conspiracy theories are all but ignored by alice ( julia roberts , acting all serious ) , the justice department employee that he has a crush on . 
she not interested , but another person is : a cia psychiatrist ( patrick stewart ) who promptly kidnaps him . 
is one of jerry's conjectures correct ? 
 * is * the metal strip in the new $100 bill being used to track your movements ? 
is oliver stone still alive , because he cut a deal with george bush to spread * dis * information ? 
is this movie really about * any * of the crazed cabbie's theories ? 
no , no , and no . 
as it turns out , there's some other nonsense going on here , involving and revolving around jerry's background . 
 ( hint : pay attention to an early scene where jerry blacks out and flashes back , in quick succession , to images of an interrogation room , hypodermic needles , and ms . roberts herself . ) 
the * initial * premise is pretty good and is played , for a while , at a delightfully dizzying clip . 
mel is wider-open that we've ever seen him and , if his character's relationship with roberts' initially strains credibility , their combined star power is blissfully intoxicating . 
 ( the highest wattage of the summer , perhaps ? ) 
even when the plot contrivances begin to intrude , the two remain a randy dandy screen pair . 
there's a great scene in jerry's fortress , er , apartment , with alice trying to act casual as her hyperactive host tries to remember the combination to a locked coffee bean container . 
 ( which he stores in another locked con- tainer , his fridge . ) 
other hilarious moments , of which there are many , include a trio of memorable convention-breakers , where alice ditches a tail , jerry cold-cocks someone , and , later , eludes a foot pursuit , each in a uproariously unexpected fashion . 
 ( that's donner's own ladyhawke playing in the theater , btw . ) 
let's see , other pleasures include . . . 
a brilliant title sequence , a jazzy score from carter burwell , and the worth-paying-to-see sight of roberts pumping lead into one bad guy and slamming another's head into a wall . 
oh , pretty woman ! 
getting to the latter , however , requires slogging through an increasingly overburdened and ultimately unappealing story . 
the last hour of conspiracy theory devolves from tolerable to torturous to almost unwatchable . 
more stuff happens of the stupid shit variety than is worth mentioning here , except , perhaps , for a late sequence that has alice locating jerry in an abandoned wing of a mental hospital by hearing his voice carrying through the air ducts . 
and here i thought it was wabbit season . 
good god , who rewrites these movies ? 
and do they arrive in nondescript black vehicles ? 
in french , the phrase " film noir " literally means " black film . " 
webster defines it as " a type of crime film featuring cynical malevolent characters in a sleazy setting and an ominous atmosphere that is conveyed by shadowy photography and foreboding background music . " 
classic film noir , including such memorable fare as " the big sleep , " the original " cape fear , " and orson welles' striking " a touch of evil , " employed black and white photography to emphasize the long shadows associated with the genre . 
color came into play with neo-noir films like " chinatown " and " blade runner . " 
 " l . a . confidential , " easily the best film of 1997 , is a wonderful piece of contemporary neo-noir filmmaking . 
for a textbook example of how to take all the elements of neo-noir and create an absolute mess , there's " palmetto . " 
based on " just another sucker , " a short story written by british author rene raymond under the pseudonym james hadley chase , " palmetto " shows what happens when a filmmaker puts style ahead of substance . 
director volker schlondorff ( " tin drum , " the handmaid's tale " ) stated " we weren't even sure for a long time if it was going to be a thriller or a comedy . " 
it shows . 
 " palmetto " is too preposterous too be taken seriously as a thriller and too ponderous to work as a comedy . 
the story begins when journalist harry barber ( woody harrelson ) is released from prison . 
someone turned state's witness and revealed that harry was framed , a " reward " for blowing the lid on corruption in the small florida town of palmetto . 
bitter and broke , harry plans to hitchhike to miami and start his life over , but ex-girlfriend nina ( gina gershon ) appears to return him to palmetto . 
while hanging out at a bar , he notices that a beautiful woman has left her purse in a phone booth . 
harry pockets her cash , only to have the woman reappear and catch him with her money in his pocket . 
no problem , though . 
the radiant blonde is rhea malroux ( elisabeth shue , ) the young wife of a very rich older man with heart problems , and she has a proposition for harry . 
rhea needs " a threatening voice and someone to collect the ransom " for the staged kidnapping of her teenage stepdaughter odette ( chloe sevigny . ) 
the girls want to bilk a half-million dollar " ransom " from the old man and will happily give harry $50 , 000 for helping with the scam . 
things go wrong , of course . 
odette is found dead , leaving harry frantically trying to dispose of the corpse and cover his tracks . 
in an ironic twist , harry is asked to work for the local d . a . 's 
office . 
they need a press liaison to field questions about odette's kidnapping and feel that harry is the perfect man for the job . 
not a bad set-up for a noir film , if only schlondorff knew how to handle the material , but he never settles on a consistent tone . 
the actors don't know what to do with their characters either , muddling the proceedings even further . 
as if that wasn't enough , the story suffers from major problems in logic . 
woody harrelson is a talented actor with an admirable willingness to take on risky parts , but he's lost here . 
presented as a crusading journalist who was horribly wronged , it makes no sense that harry would be stupid and dishonest enough to get caught up in this scheme . 
harrelson clearly doesn't know what to do with harry's character , so he spends most of the film glowering , sweating and generally acting miserable . 
meanwhile , elisabeth shue gives a goofy performance , behaving like a vamp on nitrous oxide . 
as the stepdaughter , chloe sevigny lays on so many slurpy quirks that she comes off like juliette lewis jr . despite a number of steamy scenes , there's no chemistry between harrelson and the women . 
to make matters worse , schlondorff badly dubs in dialogue while the character's lips are running over each others bodies . 
two particularly bad scenes highlight the film's problems . 
while driving with a body in his trunk , harry has a minor car wreck and a cop shows up . 
the officer wants to help change harry's flat tire and asks him to open the trunk . 
harry's pathetic attempts to keep the trunk closed might have worked if played as comedy , but under schlondorff's grim direction , the scene is just embarrassing . 
the film's nadir comes when a bad guy prepares to kill harry and nina . 
we're supposed to be horrified watching our hero dangling over a bathtub filled with acid , but by this point the film has foundered so badly that the scene is merely reminiscent of when jessica and roger rabbit were suspended over a vat of dip . 
had " palmetto " been played with tongue firmly in cheek , it might have been an entertaining shaggy dog story . 
but under the harsh direction of schlondorff , the film is just a sluggish paint-by-numbers exercise in neo- noir cluelessness . 
avoid this nonsense and go see " l . a . confidential " instead . 
plot : lara croft is british , rich and kicks a lot of ass . 
she also likes to raid tombs but when the illuminata discover that all nine planets are about to stand in alignment for the first time in 5000 years , and that lara holds the key to time , well , needless to say , they want to nab it from her . 
oh yeah , lara also likes to sport a lot of tight shirts . . . hummana-hummana-hummana . . . 
critique : angelina jolie was great in this movie . 
there were also about three " action scenes " that were pretty cool to look at in this film . 
uhhhhhm , unfortunately the rest of the movie sucked ! 
bad dialogue , generic sidekicks and bad guys , a lame mystery , yoda-esque moments with mumbo-jumbo being sprouted about and even some crappy cgi near the end . 
all in all , this movie wasn't the horror show that some of the early reviews had warned us about , especially since every other scene does feature jolie's torpedoes begging to burst out of her lucky shirts , but it was quite the letdown nonetheless , especially when you consider the major opportunity that the filmmakers had here to create a cool , hip woman hero , based on a popular video game . 
i don't know , i guess you have to put most of the blame on director simon west , who didn't really tie the whole movie together all that well . 
the film lacked energy , a consistent pace and well . . . a 
fun time ! 
i felt kinda depressed while watching this movie . 
all that " father " crap was horrible and the dialogue given to poor john voight to recite was just plain embarrassing ( and i'm not even gonna mention his moustache . . . hehehe ) . 
why have this shite in the movie at all ? ! ? 
i especially hated the scenes in which some ghost-like figure , friend or child would ramble on about lara croft's father while all the time , i'm not giving one ounce of crap as to what they're talking about . 
i guess that's called lack of " character development " , right ? 
that's when a movie builds enough background into the characters on the screen , so that we could actually " get into " it and care about them . 
i didn't care about anyone in this movie , and was bored during most of its " let's explain why we're doing all this gobbledygook " moments . 
and even though i thought that jolie kicked some mighty ass ( damn , did she look sexy blasting those guns or what ? ! ? ) , everybody else around her was so goddamn boring ! 
her butler was a throwaway with no personality , her side-kick was supposed to be funny but just annoyed me every time he said the word " bugger " ( and he says it a lot , trust me ! ) and all of the so-called bad guys just spewed one-dimension ! 
they had no spark , no energy amongst them , and even though a few of the action scenes in the movie were cool ( see the trailer and you'll know which ones i'm talking about ) , the overall picture was lame and the dialogue and mystical bull-crap just buried it even further . 
also , for a movie that's supposed to be about all of these exotic locations , i wasn't necessarily impressed by any of its exterior shots , and even less so with its interiors , which all looked like they were shot in the same room . 
mind you , i won't go as far as to say that it's the " worst movie of the year " ( remember that i actually have to go see freddie prinze jr . movies also ! ) , but it's definitely the worst film that i've seen during this summer movie season ( of course , it's still early and i'm sure there are a few more garbage heaps coming down the pike ) . 
skip this one altogether and rent any of the indiana jones movies instead . . . trust 
me , you'll miss the boobs but end your night with some rock-solid porn and it's all good ! 
where's joblo coming from ? 
raiders of the lost ark ( 10/10 ) - the mummy ( 8/10 ) - lost in space ( 7/10 ) - the mummy returns ( 6/10 ) - the general's daughter ( 3/10 ) - romancing the stone ( 7/10 ) - wild wild west ( 3/10 ) - mission impossible 2 ( 7/10 ) 
it happens every year -- the days get longer , the weather gets warmer and the studios start releasing their big-budget blockbusters . 
this year's crop already seems inferior to that of past summers , even 1997's lackluster trio of batman & robin , the fifth element and the lost world . 
the marketing blitz in 1998 has been centered on godzilla ( " heeere , lee-zerd , lee-zerd . . . " ) , which doesn't make me optimistic about future summers . 
godzilla is , of course , based on a series of cult movies ( translation : really bad movies only a few people can tolerate ) from japan that turn up really late at night on ted turner-owned cable stations . 
that this big-budget remake won't rise above its roots is fairly obvious . 
the credits show us the origin of godzilla . 
in five words : nuclear explosion creates giant lizard . 
sounds like an enquirer headline , doesn't it ? 
the mushroom cloud is followed by the inevitable " discovery " sequence . 
this time , a japanese guy is eating noodles with chopsticks while watching sumo wrestling ( if that ain't a stereotype . . . ) 
when he discovers the telltale radar blip . 
people die . 
cut to our protagonist , played by matthew broderick . 
he makes his first appearance wearing headphones , warbling along to " singin' in the rain . " 
it's a none-too-subtle sign that he wishes he were in a classier movie . 
no dice , bueller . 
from the beginning , poor matthew has to do embarassing things like fondle giant earthworms and stand in godzilla's enormous footprint . 
every disaster movie has to have a know-it-all scientist , and this time broderick is it . 
as the world's leading expert on radiated earthworms ( and wouldn't you love to have that printed on your business card ? ) , 
broderick is invaluable to the government . 
he immediately dispels vicki lewis' theory that godzilla is a dinosaur because , hey , you can't take seriously the intellectual arguments of " newsradio " cast members . 
broderick instead hits the nail on the head , announcing godzilla is a radiated lizard . 
 " the radiation isn't an anamoly , " he announces , and lightning strikes . 
 " i believe this is a mutated abberation , " he continues , and lightning strikes again . 
it's vocabulary lightning , you see , activated by words of four syllables or more . 
meanwhile , we're introduced to our new york cast , headed by an ambitious broadcast journalist ( maria patillo ) , broderick's former love . 
gee , what are the odds their paths will cross again at a dramatically important time ? 
poor patillo has been trying to get ahead in the news business for years but has been held down by heartless anchorman harry shearer . 
italian cameraman hank azaria tells her she's not ruthless enough : " nice doesn't get you anywhere in this town . 
it's dog eat dog . " 
actually , it's lizard eat city , as godzilla emerges from the atlantic to begin a rampage on the big apple's core . 
the filmmakers provide us with a one-note drunk fisherman who hooks godzilla . 
 " i think i've got a bite , " he announces as a gigantic tidal wave begins rushing toward him . 
you can guess what happens next . 
similar reactions spring forth as the monster prowls the city . 
hearing the rumble of approaching footsteps , one new yorker remarks , " please don't tell me that's another parade . " 
please don't tell me that's the best line you could come up with . 
mayor ebert is not pleased . 
played by the principal from " head of the class , " he continually makes the wrong decision when given an option , and bickers with his assistant gene . 
i guess the filmmakers knew they'd be getting two thumbs down from the critics and didn't even bother to kiss ass . 
the problem is , if you're going to attack siskel and ebert , you should at least make it funny . 
dialogue like , " didn't we agree that we weren't going to have any sweets until after the election ? " 
followed by , " back off , gene , " just doesn't work for me . 
other lame running jokes include everyone mispronouncing the broderick character's last name and frenchman jean reno's inability to find a good cup of coffee in new york . 
there's even more fun to be had as godzilla progresses . 
as the beast heads back into hiding , broderick suggests the military lure it out with food . 
cue twelve dump trucks , all dropping fish into a new york intersection . 
 ( broderick : that's a lot of fish . ) 
that ambush fails , but broderick soon figures out why godzilla came to new york by buying $50 worth of home pregnancy tests and running lizard blood through them . 
yep , godzilla's with children , which makes you wonder just what kind of creature would be horny enough to have sex with godzilla . 
that's until broderick explains that godzilla reproduces asexually , like linda tripp . 
godzilla comes to us from the makers of independence day , so it has a lot of dumb action scenes , destructive special effects and shallow subplots . 
look no further than patillo's betrayal of broderick ( patillo : what have i done , animal ? 
what have i become ? ) and the climactic " godzilla's nest " sequence in madison square garden . 
the main difference is , independence day was about the experience . 
it had a real global , patriotic element to it , and some genuinely fun characters . 
godzilla has lots of rain and lightning , reptilian action ripped off from jurassic park and endless product placement from the likes of kodak , blockbuster , juicy fruit , swatch , sprint and bumble bee tuna . 
yes , bumble bee actually paid to be known as the official tuna of godzilla . 
that fact alone is twice as interesting as anything in the movie . 
i heard actor skeet ulrich discussing this film in a couple of interviews , and in both instances , he felt the strange compulsion to compare it a little series of films called lethal weapon . 
now , i personally remember those films as a ) starring a major motion picture star b ) being funny c ) having great action sequences d ) great chemistry e ) decent character development . 
hmmm . . . . okay . . . now on to my review of chill factor . 
plot : a graveyard shift regular working joe and ice cream truck driver fall onto a malicious plan by an ex-army general , to propose a nuclear device to international prospects . 
when the device suddenly falls into their reluctant laps , they must keep it cool on ice , and rush it over to an army base , before the contraption ticks over 50 degrees fahrenheit , and kills millions of people . 
critique : " speed on an ice-cream truck " is probably the pitch that was used to sell this one-tone movie to its backers , but unfortunately , the only way that anyone could compare this film to that tension-filled , original two hours of cinema , is in its distinct honor of being the complete opposite of what that film , and the lethal weapon movies , stood for . 
this film is seasoned in cliches , with plenty of badly written dialogue , over the top acting from cuba gooding jr . , zero chemistry between the two leads , and horribly tacky bad guys , tossed in to complete an overall bad movie recipe . 
my friend and i enjoyed watching this movie to a certain extent , because some of the lines in it were so bad and obviously " written " , that we just had to crack up . 
that , and the formula for the film's script which followed the proverbial 1-2- , and you guessed it . . . 3 scenario ! 
and what about all those catchy , hip names to get us to relate to the characters . . . . " elvis " 
and " nighshift " , oh what talent lies in the minds of these screenwriters ( and yes , it actually took two guys to come up with this regurgitated drivel ) . 
it is unfathomable to me as to how actors skeet ulrich and cuba gooding jr . got involved in this one-week-old-blue-cheese-smelling project . 
did they actually think that it would boost their careers , or did they know that the script sucked , but discounted any fall from grace , knowing full well that the stack of cash in their back pockets would pad their fall ? 
most probably the latter . 
have you seen either fled or bulletproof ? 
well , despite the slight differences in plot , the essentials are basically the same here . 
you get a black guy and a white guy being chased by a bunch of people , having no choice but to work together to get somewhere , hating each other at first , but over time , learning to respect one another as individuals . 
yawn . 
add to that , the fact that our film actually has bad guys who are all dressed in black , drive black cars and black vans , and run around with all kinds of telecommunicative devices sprinkled around their head . 
not too conspicuous , eh ? 
call me a party-pooper , but as much as i like a nice cheezy movie as much as the next guy , this film just doesn't even try to do anything original or reasonably entertaining . 
one cool scene with a boat careening down a mountainside , and another with a nuclear device obliterating everything on an island , do not a fun , buddy-action flick make . 
show cuba the money , everybody ! 
 : ) 
little known facts about this film and its stars : this is not a little known fact or anything , but damn , is it just me or does skeet ulrich look an awful lot like great-looking actor johnny depp ? 
skeet's real-life nicknames include chester , skeeter and mosquito . 
he stands 6'1 " , was born in north carolina , and got married in 1997 to that sex-kitten actress from clay pigeons ( 7 . 5/10 ) , 
georgina cates . 
they own a farm together in virginia and seven dogs . 
skeet has a long scar on his chest from open-heart surgery done when he was 10 to correct a ventricle defect . 
actor cuba gooding jr . was born in the bronx , new york . 
in 1984 , he break-danced during the closing ceremonies of the olympic games in los angeles . 
he stands 5'10 " . 
actress hudson leick , who plays one of the " bad guys/girls " in his movie , is better known from her role as " callisto " on the popular tv series " xena : princess warrior " . 
this film reportedly had a budget of $40 million ? ? 
i'm not exactly sure where all this money went , but it certainly did not register onscreen . 
interestingly enough , director hugh johnson , who makes his big screen debut with this film , was the cinematographer on the 1996 film white squall and the 1997 demi moore vehicle , g . i . 
jane ( 6 . 5/10 ) . 
it is with some sad irony that i screened fright night part 2 on the day that one of it's stars , roddy mcdowall passed away at the age of 70 . 
mcdowall was one of the most talented and prolific actors in hollywood , having a career that spanned over 60 years and appearing in more than 100 films . 
fright night part 2 probably will not be counted among his more memorable roles . 
this is really sad considering how good the first fright night film was . 
william ragsdale and roddy mcdowall both reprised their roles as the somewhat reluctant vampire killers who seem to be the only ones that realize that vampires walk among us . 
 ( at least in the movies anyway . ) 
it has been several years since charlie brewster ( ragsdale ) and b-movie actor turned late night horror film host , peter vincent ( mcdowall ) came face to face with a real live vampire who just happened to be charlie's next door neighbor . 
charlie and peter won that battle , but apparently even vampires have relatives who get pissed if you kill members of their family . 
apparently charlie's former bloodsucking next door neighbor had a sister who was none too pleased to find out that some kid and an aging actor staked her sibling . 
so she decides to exact a little bit of revenge . 
this ends up forcing charlie and peter to battle the forces of darkness yet again . 
one of the things that made fright night such a success was chris sarandon who played charlie's stylish next door neighbor with a taste for blood . 
fright night part 2 tries to duplicate that modern style but it falls sort . 
while they are stylish , the vamps in this film just don't have the personality of the undead in the first film . 
with the exception of a werewolf who adds some much needed comic relief to a few of the scenes . 
one bright spot , speaking from a strictly sexist point of view , is traci lin , who plays charlie's very skeptical girlfriend . 
it's really a shame that her career hasn't been better since she made this film . 
ragsdale does a fair job in this film , but doesn't give nearly the performance that he did in the original . 
roddy mcdowall makes the most with what he is given , which unfortunately isn't much which is a shame because his character was a lot of fun in the original movie . 
i guess i would have to say that the first film was a superior product in every way . 
the original always left you feeling danger was lurking right around the corner , part 2 had more of the feel of a music video . 
never a good thing for a horror film . 
another minus for part 2 was the traditional scenes that leave the audience on the edge of their seats waiting for something to jump out of a shadow where very rare . 
for that matter , they were almost nonexistent . 
if i was going to watch a horror film , this would be far from my first choice . 
the first fright night , on the other hand , would be right up near the top of my list . 
if i was in the mood for a roddy mcdowall film i'd probably head to the science fiction section of my local video store and rent planet of the apes . 
either way fright night part 2 would most likely not enter into the equation . 
sometimes a stellar cast can compensate for a lot of things , and " pushing tin " certainly features some name stars who are going places : billy bob thornton , cate blanchett , angelina jolie , and oh yes john cusack who might not realize it at first , but he's actually the * veteran * among this quartet of fine-looking people . 
sometimes a terrific cast like this can compensate for a lackluster screen treatment of an idea that has " hip comedy " written all over it , compensate for workmanlike but uninspired direction , compensate for an obnoxious score that would have anyone but the tone deaf screaming for the exits , compensate for clich ? d characterizations , compensate for embarrassing " you have to be joking " situations . 
etc . 
in " pushing tin , " thornton , blanchett , jolie , and cusack don't have an earthly . 
from the opening sequence the film is in big trouble : squiggly , " quirky " credits , fake-looking passenger planes circling new york , and anne dudley's in-your-ear music making us wonder how she ever got that best original score nomination for " the full monty , " let alone won it . 
but i , for one , wasn't ready to walk just yet . 
so quickly we descend into a tightly-edited air traffic controllers montage which screams to us in large capital letters these people have a difficult job , yes , what with their frantic , mile-a-minute instructional personas , juggling planes and passenger's lives like some huge , real , mid-air video game . 
hip , cool , demonic auctioneer nick " the zone " falzone ( cusack ) is the best in the biz . 
of course . 
until some hipper , cooler , leather-clad flyboy assist in the guise of russell bell ( thornton ) shows up to challenge falzone's finite air space . 
boys will be boys and some heavy duty testosterone starts exuding , then the macho one-upmanship begins . 
it doesn't stop with seeing who can juggle three 747s within a cat's whisker of each other . 
oh no . 
there are some broken hoop dreams , some wanna-see-how-fast-i-can-drives , and then the ultimate showdown : was that my wife i saw you with last night ? 
director mike newell ( " four weddings and a funeral " ) must have read a different draft of this script because the one that's being acted out up there between newark , jfk , and la guardia doesn't have an ounce of subtlety , and newell has made some awfully good-and funny-movies before . 
the antics of these air traffic controllers will make you cringe . 
they'll make you frown in disbelief . 
they'll have you constantly looking at your watch . 
but wait ! 
there's still 100 minutes to go ! ! 
the film's only saving grace is blanchett , whose connie falzone is a spunky , brash , long island housewife who wants to better herself by taking art classes . 
this is a wonderful accomplishment for the fine actress who has previously played a red-headed australian gambler ( " oscar and lucinda " ) and a tempestuous british monarch ( " elizabeth " ) . 
but she's not enough to save the picture . 
thornton looks terrific and performs solidly but his character is a joke . 
jolie ( as russell's knock 'em dead wife ) isn't bad , but the up-and-coming actress disappoints by allowing herself to be displayed like a plaything . 
cusack cracks gum , dons shades , and acts hip throughout but , like everything else in the film , his performance is forced . 
in the last ten minutes or so , for some inexplicable reason , things start coming together and you begin to get a sense of how this film might have been , like the trailer teases . 
but it's too little too late . 
a fine cast aside , " pushing tin " is nothing more than an embarrassment . 
the most depressing thing about the depressingly pedestrian james bond film " the world is not enough " is its final frame : white letters on a black background proclaiming " james bond will return . " 
oh i certainly hope not . 
with pierce brosnan in his third and reportedly last go-round as james bond 007 , " the world is not enough " is the best example to date that " 'enough " is enough . 
in this , the 19th chapter in the seemingly-endless franchise featuring ian fleming's debonair british secret agent who likes his martinis--and his nemeses--shaken not stirred , the sub-inspired screenwriters have chosen to rehash all of the setups , stunts , and sexy encounters of the previous 18 bond flicks rather than coming up with anything the slightest bit original . 
we've got previously-used speedboat chases , ski chases , and sticky situations aboard nuclear submarines . 
we've got a couple of hot-to-trot babes without an ounce of acting ability between them . 
we've got a post-cold war megalomaniac bent on world domination slash destruction ( here played by a skinheaded robert carlyle with mean , lean panache ) . 
and , as has been the case since 1977's " the spy who loved me , " we've got a plot that has nothing whatsoever to do with anything conceived by mr . fleming . 
we've also got a main title song by garbage to which , with very little effort , you can fit the lyrics to * both * songs from " tomorrow never dies . " 
while originality was never the series' strong suit , the films were almost always fun , with at least some thought going into the nonstop stunts . 
i can't think of one memorable set-piece in the entire--and very dull-- " the world is not enough . " 
in addition , michael apted ( yes , the respected director of such films as " coal miner's daughter , " " nell , " and the " 28up " documentary series ) takes embarrassing advantage of the full range of bond clich ? s . 
you get the " talking killer " plot device--you know the scenario : the bad guy has the good guy at his mercy yet waxes poetic just long enough to die of old age . 
and you get a slew of high-priced assassins who can't hit a barn door at 20 paces : in the film's opening minutes ( of an endless 128 ) , bond chases a sultry sniper along the thames and the leather-clad lovely fails to hit bond's souped-up " fishing boat " with a bazooka when he pulls within a few feet of her . 
later , she takes off in a hot air balloon with bond dangling from a guy rope beneath her but is still unable to take him out . 
these reliable absurdities are more frustrating than usual since there are no distractions other than occasional ads for luxury automobiles , vodka , or credit cards . 
in and among the rampant product placements , brosnan grapples with carlyle , " braveheart " 's sophie marceau ( as former kidnap victim slash heiress elektra king ; she's terrible ) , " wild things " ' denise richards ( as a nuclear physicist lord help me ; she's laughable ) , and judi dench as m . dame judi brings the only shred of dignity to a series that has long since jettisoned its self-respect ( about the time roger moore inherited bond's walther ppk ) . 
brosnan goes through the motions with the grace and charm you'd expect of the former " remington steele " star , but even he has to be thinking there's more to life than an easy paycheck . 
he's given plenty of wiseacre asides to deliver , but only one of them-- " i don't know any doctor jokes " --made me chuckle ( although " i thought christmas only comes once a year " is more in keeping with the series' penchant for grown-worthy puns ) . 
when walt disney pictures announced a live-action feature based on the '60s cartoon series of " mr . magoo , " special interests groups representing the vision-impaired let out a cry of dismay . 
mr . 
magoo , they claimed , would be an insult to the men and women they represented . 
in fact , they were wrong . 
mr . 
magoo is not just an insult to the blind and near-blind , it's an insult to every human being who has the misfortune to suffer through this dreadfully unfunny , 90 minute atrocity . 
it's stating the obvious to remark that disney appears to have run out of original ideas . 
look at their roster of 1996 and 1997 releases , and you'll see a shocking list of retreads , including 101 dalmatians , george of the jungle , jungle2jungle , that darn cat ! , flubber , and now mr . 
magoo . 
the best of these ( george of the jungle ) was mildly entertaining . 
the worst , mr . 
magoo , exposes just how painful a bad movie experience can be . 
the first problem with mr . 
magoo is the script . 
despite the collaboration of naked gun scribe pat proft , mr . 
magoo is comically barren . 
from beginning to end , there's not a laugh to be found . 
every attempt at humor -- and there are lots of them -- falls flat with an audible thud . 
you'd think that out of the dozens of gags jammed into this film , at least a few would work , but that's not the case . 
i've had more laughs during ingmar bergman pictures . 
then there's leslie nielsen , who looks , sounds , and acts absolutely nothing like the animated character ( memorably voiced by jim backus ) . 
in the past , nielsen has proven his comic aptitude with roles in movies like airplane and the naked gun . 
lately , however , he has been getting lazy , taking parts in the likes of dracula : dead and loving it , spy hard , and mr . 
magoo . 
even if nielsen was in top form , it would take an incredible stretch of imagination to see him as magoo ( especially since we're reminded of the original by the short cartoon segments that open and close the film ) , but " top form " is not a phrase i would use to describe his performance here . 
this is strictly a take-the-money-and- run operation . 
the story , which , like many disney stories , can be described in one long sentence : magoo is the only witness to the theft of a rare jewel from a museum , and , as he is trying to apprehend the thieves on his own , the police mistake him for the robber . 
the cops are played by ernie hudson and stephen tobolowsky , who take their lumps early and often . 
the bad guys are kelly lynch ( who does a lot of martial arts-type kicking ) , nick chinlund , and malcolm mcdowell ( who has the good sense to look embarrassed ) . 
matt keeslar portrays one of magoo's sidekicks -- his nephew , waldo . 
the bumbling man's other , more interesting companion is a dog named angus . 
most of mr . 
magoo's humor comes in the form of failed slapstick . 
the cartoon violence level in this film doesn't approach that of home alone 3 or flubber , but it's still pretty acute , with characters getting hit on the head with sledgehammers and knocked off snowy precipices . 
there's a non-violent bit with magoo preparing a chicken dinner that could have been funny if it was handled better , but , compared to mr . bean's recent , similar misadventure , it doesn't hold up well . 
then there is the series of lame jokes that result from magoo's near blindness , such as the occasion when he mistakes a wild animal for a baby . 
i'm willing to cut director stanley tong a little slack . 
tong , a hong kong film maker trying to break into the hollywood market , has helmed several jackie chan movies , including first strike , rumble in the bronx , and supercop . 
his chief talent , that of choreographing martial arts fights , is wasted here ( despite some high kicking by kelly lynch ) . 
like john woo ( hard target ) and ringo lam ( maximum risk ) before him , it appears that tong has been consigned to the purgatory of making a bad movie as his entry into the american mainstream . 
it is worth noting that , unlike many disney films which hold a perverse appeal for the under-10 crowd while driving parents to distraction , mr . 
magoo appears to bore viewers of all ages . 
the screening i attended was wall-to-wall kids , and , for the most part , they didn't seem to be enjoying themselves . 
when the film was over , i asked one little girl what she thought of it . 
her pained expression confirmed the adage that a picture can indeed be worth a thousand words . 
mr . 
magoo is the kind of movie that should be rejected by any potential viewer , sight unseen . 
david spade has a snide , sarcastic sense of humor that works perfectly on the tv sitcom just shoot me . 
it also served as a good showcase for him when he co-starred , opposite the late chris farley , in tommy boy and black sheep . 
lost and found marks the comedian's first attempt at going solo in a movie , and it also reveals that when spade doesn't have a reliable back-up system , his brand of humor seems more desperate than one may expect . 
david spade is not the problem with lost and found . 
he plays dylan ramsey , the sweet main character , to the best of his abilities . 
the story revolves around dylan's obsessions with his beautiful new neighbour , lila dubois ( sophie marceau , from braveheart ) , and her terrier named jack . 
dylan believes that the best way to a woman's heart is through her dog . 
and so he kidnaps jack , planning to stage a fake rescue , in hope to win lila over . 
there are three good things about lost and found . 
the first is spade . 
the second is sophie marceau , a lovely actress who's been planted into the wrong movie . 
lastly , there's the dog , who is used here in a similar context to puffy from there's something about mary . 
unfortunately , director jeff pollack finds more humor in putting jack through a cycle in the drier than he does with simply making him look cute . 
this kind of physical humor is dead . 
pollack does everything but beat the poor pooch with a baseball bat to get laughs , and this procedure is cheap , unfunny and resoundingly cruel . 
this is where i start to get fuzzy . 
also in this unusual blend is ( apparently ) a sweet-natured love story between dylan and lila . 
given the mean-spirited comedy that the movie is obviously striving for , i found this hard to swallow . 
and , why does dylan even deserve someone like lila , after kidnapping her precious dog and putting it through such pain ? 
predictably , lost and found opts for a happy ending , one that feels so sentimental , gooey , and rings so false that it sets off a siren in your head that makes you feel a bit cheated . 
david spade ( who also co-wrote the movie ) tries hard , so very hard , to make this project amusing . 
there are some choice scenes that are quite funny , but the movie is only sporadically funny . 
patrick bruel plays the stock character of rene , the pompous jerk who also wants to win lila over , with his good looks and money . 
jon lovitz and martin sheen are welcome additions in two tiny supporting roles . 
despite a few positive attributes , lost and found just doesn't work . 
if you're searching for an enjoyable romantic-comedy , you could do far better than this obvious , misguided failure that shows a blatant disregard for what it's trying to present . 
9 : its pathetic attempt at " improving " on a shakespeare classic . 
8 : its just another piece of teen fluff . 
7 : kids in high school are not that witty . 
6 : the wittiness is not witty enough . 
5 : the comedy is not funny . 
4 : the acting is poor . 
3 : the music . 
2 : the poster . 
1 : its worse than she's all that ! 
10=a classic 9=borderline classic 8=excellent 7=good 6=better than average 5=average 4=disappointing 3=poor 2=awful 1=a crap classic 
sometimes i wonder just what the censors are thinking . 
take this film , " naked killer " , among it's ingredients are heavy doses of violence , rape sequences , straight and lesbian sex scenes and what our system calls " coarse language " . 
but what do those intelligent people at the censorship bureau choose to remove in case someone will get offended ? 
one word - penis . 
that's it . 
in spite of everything else in the movie the one thing that the censors decide is too much is " penis . " . 
it really restores you're faith in the system , huh ? 
anyway , that's just a side point . 
when naked killer was released in the local independent cinemas around melbourne , it was advertised ad nausuem as a hip , cool , controversial thriller . 
what they forgot to mention was that it isn't very good . 
the plot involves male cop tinam ( simon yam ) , investigating a series of brutal murders . 
while getting a haircut he meets and finds himself attracted to a girl named kitty ( chingmy yau ) , who , after extracting revenge on the man who killed her father , falls in with professional killer sister cindy ( svenwara madoka ) . 
realising kitty has potential , cindy decides to train kitty in several unusual and ridiculous ways and gives her a new identity . 
however in the course of his investigation tinam ( who believed kitty had disappeared ) , runs into her again , but isn't quite sure if it's her . 
to complicate matters the actual serial killlers , princess and baby , who a former students of cindy , and have been told to kill their old master and her new student . 
from then the action ensues . . . 
all in all , this is not a well done movie . 
the script is awful , the direction all over the place , the editing is jerky and confusing and the subtitling is surprisingly poor . 
however the are a few stand alone pieces that do entertain . 
the shoot out in the car park is almost woo-like in adrenaline . 
the fight scenes are energetic and i guess it must get a few points for trying something a little different . 
let me put this way , if you like action - get something else , if you like strong women in movies - get something else , if you have do decide between this and " black cat " for your hong kong female action - don't get either . 
even for curiosity value it just isn't worth it . 
let's face it - if ever the was a movie that became popular on it's subject alone , this is it . 
after seeing blaze and driving miss daisy , i was ready for some mindless fun--oh , maybe something like tango & cash . 
maybe not ! 
mindless fun is one thing , but brain-dead slop is another matter altogether . 
tango & cash has " lowest common denominator " written all over it . 
the movie stars sylvester stallone and kurt russell as rival undercover cops in l . a . russell plays cash , a reckless slob who dresses in jeans and tee shirts . 
stallone plays tango , a wealthy investor who works on the force strictly for the thrill of it ; he doesn't need the money . 
in an effort to change his image , stallone goes for a yuppie , gq look in the film , wearing spectacles and three piece suits . 
the two detectives reluctantly become partners after they are framed for murder and have to break out of prison to clear their names . 
tango & cash is unbearably noisy . 
for starters , there's harold faltermeyer's annoying synthesized score , which gets old after four notes . 
to make matters worse , the filmmakers seem to think that when it comes to loud explosions and screeching cars , the more the merrier . 
in fact , the movie begins with not one but two car chases . 
there's nothing like a good old car chase to introduce the characters in a movie . 
screenwriter randy feldman's brain must have gone to mush from watching too many cop shows on tv . 
his shockingly stupid screenplay undermines anything and everything the movie has going for it , such as stallone's efforts to convince you that tango is an intellectual . 
in a movie with the iq level of an amoeba , even a great actor is going to have trouble looking intelligent--and stallone is no lawrence olivier . 
it's hard to imagine anyone reading feldman's script and thinking , " i want to be in this movie . " 
the film's plot doesn't have one original bone in its body , and--again--you have to point your finger at the screenwriting . 
feldman's story line succumbs to every crime thriller cliche in the book , making tango & cash altogether generic and predictable . 
they simply could have called it " action movie . " 
every character , every twist and turn , is stolen from television or from other movies . 
adding insult to injury , tango & cash is about as believable as a " road runner " cartoon . 
action movies don't have to be realistic , but they should absorb you enough so that you're not thinking about the lack of realism . 
the only artistic aspect of tango & cash is the cinematography . 
there are some spectacular shots , especially during the rainy nighttime prison break in which tango and cash slide to safety on electrical wires . 
the film's main draw is the chemistry between stallone and russell . 
unfortunately , their relationship rarely progresses past macho competition as they endlessly bicker about who packs more meat in his pants . 
the dialogue consists of nothing but one-liners , and consequently the attempts at character development are embarrassing . 
it's a shame because with a workable screenplay , russell and stallone could have turned tango & cash into a charming " lethal weaponesque " adventure . 
tango & cash tries to maintain a light tone , and you do laugh about once every five minutes . 
seeing russell in drag is the movie's funniest moment , but you probably already have seen it in the commercials . 
furthermore , the light tone does not sit well against the relentlessly brutal violence . 
machine guns and torture generally don't mix well with comedy . 
jack palance appears in tango & cash doing what he does best : playing a sleazy , conniving villain . 
his character , however , is run-of-the-mill , except for his strange obsession with mice . 
like many movie villains , palance likes to play games . 
in fact , he sets a ridiculously elaborate trap for tango and cash , a trap which sends the two detectives to prison so they can be beaten and electrocuted by some meanies in the boiler room . 
you have to wonder why palance doesn't just shoot the detectives in the head ! 
the story would crumble if any of the characters were to do anything intelligent . 
teri hatcher plays stallone's sister and russell's love-interest , and she is just as pretty as can be . 
but regrettably , hatcher's acting is not on par with her exceptional beauty . 
every time she opens her mouth , you cringe ; corny dialogue and atrocious acting are always a fatal combination . 
there's really very little , if anything , to recommend in the film . 
and , more to the point , tango definitely isn't worth a penny of your cash--so don't bother . 
in " the 13th warrior , " arab poet ahmed ibn fahdlan ( antonio banderas ) finds himself kicked out of baghdad for feeling up the king's old lady . 
with his translator ( screen legend omar sharif in a small role ) , ahmed heads north to act as ambassador to the northmen ( vikings ) . 
he finds a group of warriors mourning the loss of their king . 
a messenger soon arrives from another kingdom requesting assistance . 
a soothsayer says that thirteen warriors must answer the summons , twelve northmen and one outsider . 
thus , ahmed becomes the " 13th warrior . " 
on the trip , ahmed manages to learn the vikings' language by listening to their fireside conversations . 
a bit far-fetched , it's true , but we have to swallow it if this flick is going to manage a few lines of dialogue amidst the grunting . 
ahmed , who's called " ibn " by the vikings , forms friendships with herger the joyous ( dennis storh ? i ) and the viking leader buliwyf ( vladimir kulich ) . 
when they arrive in the other kingdom , the thirteen warriors discover that they're facing an army of supernatural cannibals that live up in the caves . 
hereafter , most of the movie is battle scenes : the cannibals attack the vikings , the vikings attack the cannibals , the cannibals attack the . 
 . 
 . 
well , you get the idea . 
just to add some action , there's also a viking vs . viking duel . 
other movies insert scenes between the fights ; these scenes are called character development . 
i suspect that " the 13th warrior " had a better script at one time and that it fell through the cracks because of the tag-team direction . 
the movie started off in the hands of john mctiernan ( you'll notice a lot of similarities between " warrior " and mctiernan's " predator , " including the chittering jungle sounds ) . 
somewhere along the line , mctiernan bailed and michael crichton took over . 
crichton , whose novel " eaters of the dead " is the basis for " warrior , " has directed a small assortment of goofy science-fiction " thrillers " : " westworld , " " coma , " " looker , " " runaway . " 
their result of their consecutive efforts is a murky and pointless movie . 
perhaps what " the 13th warrior " needs more than anything else is a villain . 
the " eaters of the dead " are a faceless mob in blackface . 
they have no personality , and by the end they don't even seem particularly threatening . 
the audience has no target toward which to channel its aggression . 
mctiernan should know about the importance of an interesting villain ; it was his " die hard " that made villains seem fun and attracted big-name stars to the evil roles in action films . 
 " the 13th warrior " suffers from a lack of vision . 
it wants to be " predator " meets " braveheart " meets " the magnificent seven " meets " dances with wolves . " 
with so many competing goals , all it can do is echo what it might have been . 
it might have been a satisfying action film . 
it might have been a beautifully-rendered medieval epic . 
it might have been a thought-provoking examination of the meeting of cultures . 
what a shame it turned out to be nothing in particular . 
bottom line : if you want to see antonio swing his sword , rent " the mask of zorro . " 
there isn't much good about this movie . 
not much i can say about the acting , directing , or writing that would make you consider seeing this movie . 
so i'll get my one good comment out of the way , at least joel schuemacher ( batman & robin ) didn't direct it or it would be titled " technicolor city " . 
in fact there is nothing colorful about this movie , its dark and depressingly gloomy right down to the bitter end . 
the plot has a tendency to be interesting , but all that passes while your laughing at the ridiculous things thrown into what could have been a fascinating movie . 
the plot is impossible to explain due to how senseless it gets , so i will just touch on the bare minimum . 
john murdoch ( rufus sewell ) awakes in the bathtub of a cheap hotel , only to find out he has forgotten everything . 
john must find out who he is before the " strangers " ( a . k . a . 
mind erasing aliens ) find him and use him for their own evil conspiracy . 
during the film some interesting points are raised about human individuality , and the existence of inherently evil people . 
any of these points however are completely " erased " from your mind as you watch the actors stumble through the dreadful script . 
as i mentioned earlier , nothing but the atmosphere is right in this film . 
the acting is bland , and since there is virtually no character development no one seems to care . 
the special effects are low budget and some even hilariously fake , a sign of a true " b-movie " . 
the direction is poor and there is little continuity , not that you would expect it in a movie switching realities constantly . 
lastly the script is weak and has no concept of reality , and doesn't deserve to have the word " science " in science-fiction . 
if i haven't got my point across , i'll say it more plainly : this is a bad movie . 
lets hope the next movie by alex " i wish i was tim burton " proyas is at least tolerable . 
 " varsity blues " is the best film of 1999 thus far . 
unfortunately , it is also the first film i have seen from 1999 . 
it is another one of those small-town sports movies that involves a flawed , but good-heartedfrom 1999 . 
it is another one of those small-town sports movies that involves a flawed , but good-hearted protagonist ; a rough and meanspirited coach ; and the " big game . " 
by the end , will the underdog overcome great odds and triumph ? 
will everyone in the town turn against the coach ? 
will the team win the climactic game ? 
do cats bathe themselves regularly ? 
the so-called " hero " in question is john moxin ( james van der beek ) , a senior at west canaan high school who plays for the varsity football team , but is really just hoping to get a scholarship at brown university so that he can get out of the dead-end town . 
at least he's got the right idea , since west canaan , texas is portrayed in the film as , frankly , pathetic , with the whole town treating the weekly football games as the second coming . 
heck , in one scene , the front page of the town's newspaper is proclaiming about the west canaan badgers' big win the night before . 
when the team's star quarterback is severely injured , tearing the ligaments in his leg , john finds himself taking over as the team's leader , but his few minutes of glory do not last long , as he begins to have problems with his girlfriend ( amy smart ) when she discovers he spent an evening with another girl ( ali larter ) . 
and after staying out all night with his drinking buddies at a strip joint ( all of the teenagers in the film are portrayed as raging alcoholics ) , the team loses their second-to-last game , putting john at feuds with the coach ( jon voight who , like gary oldman , is overstaying his welcome in the typecasted role as the " bad guy " ) . 
worse yet , the coach is threatening to ruin john's scholarship chances if the badgers don't win their final game . 
the plotting of " varsity blues " is as old as the hills , and contains every cliche in the book . 
admittedly , i was never exactly bored while i was watching it , but i hasten to add that i was rarely ever entertained . 
throughout , all i could really think of is how virtually the same exact story had been filmed with a great deal more thoughtfulness and maturity in 1983's " all the right moves . " 
one of the biggest problems i had with the film is how little of interest any of the characters actually were , least of all certainly not john , who , played by van der beek ( of tv's " dawson's creek " ) , is pretty much a bore without any engaging qualities . 
while i probably shouldn't blame this on van der beek , since the inauspicious and " by-the-numbers " screenplay by w . peter iliff isn't of any help , he is still certainly not in the league of tom cruise in " all the right moves . " 
the story revolving around john , meanwhile , is extemely thin throughout , particularly for its 104-minute running time , and it alternates between uninspired comic relief ( as in when the students see their sex education teacher working as a stripper at the club ) and heavy-handed melodrama . 
the romance between john and his girlfriend had the potential to be an adequate subplot , but we also learned very little about her , which is unfortunate since amy smart , whom i don't think i've seen before in past films , is probably the only character written with any sort of intelligence . 
smart does not allow her character to become the " passive girlfriend , " instead coming off as a young woman with her own ideas and opinions . 
it's too bad the camera didn't linger on her long enough so we could hear some of those thoughts . 
the adult characters probably fare the worse of any , since they all must play residents of a dim-witted town that cares about nothing but football . 
john's relationship with his parents can also be telegraphed far in advance . 
his father is set on him becoming a football player at a university , but john doesn't want any part of that . 
his mother stands beside her " big , strong husband " and is a passive female . 
finally , jon voight plays the stock bully coach character and he does nothing to make the thankless role any more than one-dimensional . 
saving " varsity blues " from being a total washout are a few amusing sequences , including one set in the sex education class , which did get a laugh out of me . 
the scenes of playing football were well-shot and thankfully didn't overstay their welcome , as many sports films fall victim to . 
but leaving the theater , the question i had in my mind was why did this film need to be made ? 
i seem to be asking this question quite a lot lately , since the same old stories seem to be cranking out of hollywood . 
do we really need another high-school sports film ? 
no , we don't , and certainly not one of this low-caliber , which felt like a cut-and-paste job of spare parts from much better , but similar , films . 
 " varsity blues , " no doubt is the first one , however , to include an earnest scene in which one of the characters is only wearing whipped cream on their private parts . 
for a film touted as exploring relationships and black sexuality , trois is surprisingly tame . 
despite it's lurid subject matter and it's passing nod to fatal attraction , it moves along with flat , uninspired dialogue as it sets up a surprising climax that tries mightily to overthrow the considerable dead weight of the rest of the film . 
freshly moved to atlanta , jermaine ( dourdan ) and his wife , jasmine ( moore ) , have the trappings of a perfect life . 
they have a beautiful house in suburbia . 
jermaine is a lawyer on the fast track at his firm . 
jasmine is his supportive wife , who is finishing up her college degree . 
in an opening montage via a home video of the pair , we see the unremarkable story of their marriage and early marital triumphs . 
this is a couple that has it all . 
into this eden slithers the lure of lust . 
despite his outward appearance , jermaine reveals himself as selfish and covetous of his wife more as a possession than a person . 
a glimmer of his true nature peeks out during an early sex scene with his wife as he goes about his business , oblivious to jasmine's concerns . 
we also find that he has been relentlessly asking jasmine to participate in a menage- a-trois , much to jasmine's dismay . 
as jermaine puts it , " don't you want to be sexually free ? " 
jermaine shares his desire with co-worker terrence ( smith ) , who obligingly sets jermaine up with a woman who might be interested in just such an encounter . 
the woman , jade ( palmer ) is a direct counterpoint to jasmine . 
jade , at one point was a college student , too . 
unlike jasmine , she found herself pregnant , dropped out of school and now struggles to make ends meet . 
to further reinforce their differences , it's revealed that jade is involved in a custody battle over her son . 
inevitably , through liquor and a touch of duplicity on jermaine's part , the forbidden act is consummated . 
the aftermath of the encounter sidesteps into fatal attraction territory as acts of violence are perpetrated upon jermaine's property with the hint that the violence may escalate . 
by this point , trois shows itself to be a soap opera without the requisite melodrama : a fatal attraction without the social significance . 
the exploration of relationships is strictly superficial and stereotypical . 
jermaine comes off as insincere , sexually driven and selfish . 
jasmine is bland and subservient . 
jade comes off a bit sympathetically , but that is negated by her moral bankruptcy . 
yet another tale of a sexually aggressive " dog " of a man who imposes his will upon his accommodating , innocent mate . 
the last 10 minutes will undoubtly throw you a curve , but by this point , will you even care ? 
if the rest of the movie was as dynamic as the ending , perhaps there could have been some freshness to it . 
as it stands , trois is pretty standard fare . 
 " mission to mars " is one of those annoying movies where , in the middle of the movie , you get the sneaking suspicion that the reason the trailer looks so good is because they showcased all the best parts of the movie : all five minutes of it . 
 " mission " * does * give you payoff ; but when it does come , it's too little , too late . 
 " mission " has some good ideas , but they get lost in the unbearably boring delivery , dime-a-dozen dialogue , and spate of good actors wasted in cardboard-cutout roles . 
i'm sure the director and writers were very proud of each hallmark moment they came up with , so they stretch each dramatic moment out like silly putty until it loses all its charm . 
glances don't communicate any deeper emotions just because you draw them out for five hours on end . 
the film spends an hour on this kind of stuff , building to its climax . 
a lot of it is a cliched glorification of family relationships , marriage , friendship , unite we stand divided we fall kind of crap . 
there are some spectacular special effects sequences in this film , and i give it points for trying to stay true to the science i know ( trying is the key word here ) . 
the sequence with the martian demonstrating their history is oddly beautiful and touching , but as mentioned by then we're so sick of the goddamn thing we want the movie to be over . 
great design , good intentions , but no cigar . 
if you're not a die hard sci-fi , fx or jerry o'connell fan ( his character is the only one who has some semblance of character ) , don't waste your eight bucks on this . 
and what the hell , tim robbins died halfway through the movie , in a stupid way too . 
that's just unforgiveable . 
my friend here in film school just made a two minute-long film for one of his classes that includes a staged anal rape scene , done by two guys and shot on the shadow of the incident , with a banana being used as the instrument of penetration . 
as sick as this all is , watching it is one of the most admittingly hysterical moments i've ever witnessed . 
sure , it may be in bad taste , but what the hell is bad taste other than something that may be offensive to some but is riotously amusing to the rest ? 
then there's " caligula . " 
this film features incest , necrophilia , beastuality , anal rape , homosexual felatio of both sexes , elaborate and lengthy orgies , a greased-up fist forced up a man's rear , wine poured down a man who's had his urinary tracts tied off , a penis chopped off and fed to hungry dogs , etc , etc , etc . this could very well be a respectable film , and if could have been had the following not occurred : a ) the events were graphically shot in clear view ; b ) the tone was not that of trying to shock comically but to , well , show " historical accuracy ; " c ) the film was a 20 million dollar production with lavish sets , a rather impressive cast , and a whopping 2 1/2 hour running time . 
produced and funded by none other than bob guccione , owner of penthouse magazine , " caligula " comes across as the most hysterical dramatic picture since " plan 9 from outer space " because underneath there's a sense that everything this film is doing is not only accurate and justified , but also brilliantly entertaining . 
after all , it's not really the fact that this film features the aforementioned disgusting moments , but that it actually believes in them as dramatic weaponry . 
no film should be discarded because its content , because film is never about what it's about , it's about how it's about ( as the old cliche goes ) . 
those who bash this film for content are glancing over the biggest and most obvious problem with " caligula , " and that's that it's nothing but overdramaticized bullshit from start to finish , without a second of credibility in its mammoth running time . 
 " caligula " allegedly tells the true story of the evil roman emporer of the same name , a man who was so insanely decadent that his assasination came as a blessing . . . or 
so i guess , even though almost every single roman emporer was assasinated as well and for much the same reasons . 
the film opens on the wrong note , of course , with a quote from mark appearing before any image graces the screen , using the over-used passage " what shall it profit a man if he should gain the whole world an dlose his own soul , " depite the fact that the opening scene of the film is of the emporer before he was an emporer , fucking around with his own sister in a field ( i suppose if one has to lose their soul , one has to have a soul in the first place ) . 
the plot is so incomprehensibly done that all i or anyone else can make out of it is that caligula ( disastrously played by the great malcom mcdowell , a performance that does the opposite that his performance in " a clockwork orange " did ) is next in line for the throne but can't wait for the current emporer , tiberius ( peter o' toole - ditto , only for his performance in " lawrence of arabia " ) , his grandfather , to die . . . so he kills him and ascends to the throne . 
then he abuses his position , marries a woman ( helen mirren , who retains her dignity as an actor by not exactly acting ) so he doesn't just have to sleep with his sister ( a dreadful teresa ann savoy , there to be pretty , naked , and willing to hop in the sack with mac or anyone he asks her to hop in with ) , abuses his position a little more , a little more , and a little more , and then , i believe , invades england , then is killed off . 
the filler , instead of recounting his life , is supposed to be , as guccione claims , the ultimate portrait of decadent pagan rome , complete with orgies , vicious deaths , and lots of nudity . 
but instead of being the historical accurate film it really really wants to be , it instead becomes guccione's twisted masturbatory image of what it could be like . 
oh , isn't it great that they just loved having sex ? 
and that they killed people so disgustingly ? 
and wouldn't it be great if i could make a couple bucks by selling this shit off as accuracy even though it's so blatantly real bad porn that i've completely convinced myself that it's not . 
i mean , why not just show a roman orgy when i can spend a good ten minutes examining every single facet that makes it up . 
and it's not just that it's disgusting or vile or whatever adjective you want to use to describe this film - it's that in a film where the entire feel it's going for isn't felt , it's also the sloppiest expensive movie of all time . 
the sets are lavish , but so blatantly innacurate that i wonder if no historian wanting to have his name on this film explains this . 
but that doesn't matter since the cinematography is so dark that you wonder if a light meter was used at all , making this not only dark and ugly , but just plain dark . 
the camera operation is also the worst i've ever seen in my entire life . 
not only does this film hold the record for the most unnecessary zooms in one single shot ever , but often the camera will lose its subjects and pan around till they find them , then have them out of focus . 
the editing is so sloppy that some scenes are absolutely impossible to follow . 
there is no writer to speak of ( what the hell does it mean that it's " adapted from an original screenplay by gore vidal ? " ) , but nevertheless , the dialogue is shit , so laughably bad that i can't in good faith believe that anyone with an iq over 5 could say them with a straight face ( my favorite being the line when caligula inquires the doctor about the health of the dying tiberius : " he could go at any moment , but with care , he could last a year or so . " ) 
the music in this film is mostly prokofiev and khachaturian ( they use his gorgeous " adagio of spartacus and phrygia , " ad nauseum ) , used in an attempt to give the film some emotion , but instead feels as if it was shipped in from elsewhere . 
the orgy scenes ( and one infamous lesbo scene between penthouse pets lori wagner and aneeka dilorenzo ) are the result of reshoots by guccione himself , which are so obviously removed from everything else in this film that it only adds to the embrassment ( every five seconds or so , the film cuts to random nudity , as if it was afraid its audience would forget this film is rated " x " ) . 
john gielgud represents the only voice of sanity , walking around in his brief role as if he was constantly the mantra , " i'm going to kill my agent , i'm going to kill my agent . . . " 
and so on and so on , for over 2 1/2 hours , making " caligula " about as exciting and enriching as a three hour college lecture class and twice as deliriously annoying . 
guccione , in his pursuit of historical accuracy has instead made a film that is such a painstaking , arduous task to watch in its entirety that i doubt anyone can sit through an hour of it without irreversible psychological damage . 
throughout the entire film , the presence of guccione is easily felt , as if he were standing there at the edge of the screen , pretentiously looking down upon us saying " look what i can get away with ! 
and if you don't like this , then you're a prig , and worse than that , you know nothing about history ! " 
uh huh . 
there's a clear difference between historical accuracy and doing something that's artistically good . 
a film which showed roman decadence as something that was perhaps liberating for some but could not last - that would probably make for a good film . 
but using historical accuracy as a licence to get away with any kind of disgusting-for-disgustingness'-sake acts is total , total bullshit , and all i can say is that guccione and the makers of this film have lost any kind of touch with either entertainment or eroticism , and have developed a pathetic and sadistic taste for both , judging from this film . 
there's a film that came out in 1989 called " the cook , the thief , his wife , and her lover , " a magnifcent film by legendary cult director peter greenaway ( also starring helen mirren ) , which deals with graphic sex , heartstopping violence and gore , and even a little cannibalism for good measure . 
that film not only never patronized its viewers , but also handled them in a way that was shocking , yes , but also , in a bizarre way , entertaining and totally involving . 
there were real characters there in a real situation , and best of all passion and just the right amount of restraint as not to get off on the fact that it's going to be offensive to many . 
that film achieved everything it wanted to do , and has since retained a status as one of those cult films that is not only popular but actualy good . 
and it's everything " caligula " might have been but , alas , wasn't . 
remember back in the mid 1990s when crime and macabre movies were all the rage ? 
 " pulp fiction " and " fargo " both managed to get oscar nominations for the best picture , and not surprisingly , a slew of rip-offs followed in the years thereafter . 
that fad seems to be over but here comes christopher mcquarrie writing and directing " the way of the gun " that at first glance looks like another of those wanna-be's but upon closer inspection doesn't look like anything comprehendable . 
it's a crime story so wrapped up in its own little world it has a claustrophobic atmosphere - a film that won't allow the story much room to expand outside its handful of characters and somehow still manages to turn a simple premise into something so complex its ridiculous . 
complexity should come as no surprise to anyone who's familiar with mcquarrie , he wrote " the usual suspects , " which has become a cult favorite despite little critical acclaim . 
that film had a great story and was well directed but had such an elaborate , confusing screenplay it leaves many viewers scratching their heads after repeated viewings . 
you have to wonder if mcquarrie really had everything mapped out or if he was going for the hollywood idea that " if it's really confusing and about criminals and cops that makes it fascinating . " 
with " the way of the gun " mcquarrie seems to be capitalizing on the same idea , but this time the story is far less commercial - a shame because maybe that would have helped . 
the film tells the story of two drifters with no ambition and barely a reason to live but aren't hell-bent on death either ( played by ryan phillipie and benecio del toro ) . 
they get lucky when they hear about a scheme between a big-shot exec guy and his trophy wife who are going to have a baby through in vitro fertilization . 
they figure they can kidnap the surrogate mother ( played by juliette lewis ) and get a nice ransom . 
along the way we continually learn of the shady dealings between the exec , his wife , their hired goons and the " bag man " ( played by james caan - the only actor in the film who looks like he knows what he's doing ) . 
the exec is some kind of money launderer so he obviously can't call the authorities for help . 
his goons and the bag man are on the kidnappers' trail and each make different offers to get the mother back . 
the exec's son is a doctor who also gets pulled into the fray and wants to make sure his patient is all right . 
meanwhile each of these characters has something hidden up their collective sleeves and the double-crosses , secret love affairs and torrid pasts come as no surprise even though little of it has any relevance at all . 
mcquarrie doesn't know the meaning of the word simple . 
he seems to be more interested in showing us how clever he is than making a good movie . 
everything has to be complicated and confusing , so much so that it's to the point of surrealism . 
nothing is what it seems in this reality , it's one of those movies where you get dropped right into the middle of the criminal world and are expected to know most of the industry's rules and regulations . 
every scene with caan's character exemplifies this perfectly - the kidnappers already know who he is and even chat with him , getting into conversations about " the business " and how it works and we're hardly given a clue as to what they're talking about . 
these characters are probably supposed to be great criminal sketches but they're more like ideas ripped-off from sketches found in david mamet's trash . 
no one here really acts like a real person , and the story is even further removed from reality . 
it's like a dream without any appeal . 
take the opening scene for example ; the phillipe and del toro characters are in a parking lot across the street from a bar or a club counting their money and stuff . 
they sit on a brand-new mercedes and the car alarm goes off , the owner is waiting in line and yells at them to get away from his car but they don't move . 
the guy and his loud-mouth , potty-mouth girlfriend and about 20 other people cross the street and gang up on them . 
you'd think phillipe ? and del toro are ? going to pull out guns and scare them away but they don't , instead phillipe throws one punch and the two get beat down by a mob . 
there's a lot of things i didn't understand about this scene : first of all the owner of the mercedes isn't some yuppie or old rich snob , he's like a hippie straight out of the 60s . 
secondly , the two main characters seem to believe that they can actually take on the mob unarmed . 
lastly , it serves no purpose in the long run because later in the film the two are packing more artillery than a small country's army . 
if they were suicidal they wouldn't have gone on the kidnapping job in the first place ( and where they get all those guns is never explained either ) . 
there's a lot more i could pick apart about this film but that would be an exercise in futility . 
what it all comes down to is that nothing here is what it seems - which would be great if this movie were about pretty much any other story than what it is . 
absolutely none of the characters are likable or believable . 
and it's all coated with a thin layer of black comedy which is good for a chuckle here and there but this film is definitely not a flat-out black comedy and its use of such seems like a desperate attempt to kill screen time . 
with any film you see , whether you like it or not , you can at least understand what the appeal was to it , why someone would want to make it and why someone would want to see it . 
i can't say either for " the way of the gun , " because it has very little going for it and i can't imagine anyone intelligently defending it . 
_dirty_work_ has a premise of deliciously mean-spirited potential . 
mitch weaver ( norm macdonald ) and his lifelong best friend sam mckenna ( artie lange ) are losers in life : they were constantly picked on in school , and now they cannot hold regular jobs . 
but as the trailer goes , " there is one thing mitch weaver is good at--revenge . " 
so he and sam parlay their unmatched skill in getting-even schemes into a marketable revenge-for-hire business called dirty work inc . 
this should be the groundwork for a wonderfully wicked black comedy , but for a film called _dirty_work_ , what ensues is rather clean of spirit . 
in fact , what makes mitch and sam start up their business is not a giddy desire to give bullies a taste of their own medicine , but rather a more sappy reason : sam's father ( jack warden ) needs a heart transplant , and in order for him to move at the top of the recipient list , his compulsively betting doctor ( chevy chase ) asks the guys for $50 , 000 to pay off his bookie . 
so for all the scheming that goes on , beneath every underhanded plot is--gasp ! --a 
heart , which undercuts the inherent nastiness of the premise . 
not that there isn't a lot of nastiness on display--there is , but of a different sort . 
there are frequent sexual references , most prominently in the form of prostitutes and sam's impotent father's ongoing lust for them . 
and for a film rated pg-13 , director bob saget ( yes , that bob saget , of _full_house_ and _america's_funniest_home_videos_ fame ) and writers frank sebastiano , fred wolf , and macdonald himself , stretch the boundaries of good taste rather far--arguably a bit too much so ( was not one , but two separate instances of sodomy between animals really necessary ? ) . 
but the issue , of course , is not so much of taste as it is humor--as in , is it funny or not ? 
the answer is a resounding no . 
it's not that macdonald isn't a funny guy . 
he was one of the more consistently funny performers on _saturday_night_live_ before his much-talked-about firing , and his dry brand of smartass wit translates well to the big screen ; it also doesn't hurt that he's a natural , likable screen presence . 
he is able to give some of his lines a nice acid touch , but , for the most part , the oneliners , as written , are flat , and the broad slapstick gags just don't work ( one running gag has him being literally tossed out of buildings--a real riot ) . 
still , macdonald's few shining moments are just about the only moments the film has . 
the late chris farley , as hysterical as he ever was , is amusing in a cameo role , but , as a whole , the supporting players are amateurish and seemingly free from any directorial guidance . 
saget tries to juice up the proceedings with kitschy cameos by gary coleman , adam sandler , and john goodman , but their minimal novelty value cannot prevent _dirty_work_ from sputtering to the end of its brief 81-minute running time . 
the film closes on a sad note of desperation , an indulgent reel of outtakes from which only those involved in the production would derive any amusement . 
come to think of it , i cannot imagine anyone but those involved in the production to find much amusement in the entirety of _dirty_work_ . 
america's favorite homicidal plaything takes a wicked wife in " bride of chucky , " and their unholy matrimony is something old , nothing new . 
the burning question on the minds of most moviegoers , however , has nothing to do with nuptial specifics or even how the movie stacks up , but rather whether or not the duo gets down and dirty on their blood-soaked honeymoon . 
the answer is a sick-and-twisted yes - and viewers are treated to a shadowy glimpse of some hot-enough-to-melt-rubber ( or at least singe it ) lovin' . 
guess they're anatomically correct . 
chucky ( again voiced by brad dourif ) , of course , is the star of the " child's play " series , a my buddy-type doll possessed by the spirit of a slain serial killer . 
in " bride , " the plot ( heh ) picks up with his girlfriend tiffany ( jennifer tilly ) resurrecting chucky's remains ( he was blown up at the end of " child's play 3 " ) with the help of a black arts manual called " voodoo for dummies . " 
silly mortal . 
before long , she's also been reduced to shin-high figurine status , and the plastic incarnations of these one-time lunatic lovebirds hit the road to scope out some potential new human bodies . 
the rest of this rocky horror puppet show plays out as tiff and the chuckster stalk a young couple ( nick stabile and katherine heigl ) with conjugal plans of their own , leading them towards a new jersey grave where a magical , soul-transferring amulet allegedly lies in wait . 
along the way , our murderous barbie and ken go through post-marriage motions similar to any given pair of newlyweds - bicker , argue , kiss and make up . 
but when they squabble over who's going to do the dishes , watch out . 
hey , even faux people have got to work through their problems . 
director ronny yu keeps the mayhem flashy and stages an inventive scene or two , but not even visual flair can make up for the fact that these creepy kewpies are neither scary nor menacing . 
when one of them charges , it's nothing a good forward punt couldn't take care of . 
and when a climactic chase scene is needed , one of the dim-bulb protagonists must _pick_chucky_up_ so the demonic toy can force his hostage to run at gunpoint . 
throw in some silly casualties and a ridiculous ending ( will " son of chucky " be next ? ) and this is a bizarrely bad 89-minutes at the movies . 
as is the thing to do in post- " scream " slasher cinema , don mancini's screenplay slathers on the in-jokes and genre-parody . 
but little of the humor succeeds , proving self-reference can be completely worthless when it lacks bite . 
to be fair , though , most of " bride of chucky " is on auto-pilot , so it's not quite right to single out one misfired aspect of the film . 
similarly shaky , the acting ranges from screeching camp to boring bland , the effects aren't that special and the story is one big groaner . 
here's hoping chucky and his entire clan - past , present and future - rest in peace . 
this is the first film in what would become the most successful series of horror films of all time . 
a fair warning to those of you who might be inclined to watch this movie for the first appearance of everyone's favorite goalie-mask-wearing homicidal maniac . 
jason , the guy who single handedly controlled the overpopulation problem around the crystal lake area , doesn't start his quest to find the most interesting household item with which to kill someone until the sequel . 
while he does have a small role in this film , we the audience have to depend on another blood thirsty maniac to rack up the body count . 
the plot , like every other friday the 13th movie goes something like this -- crazed killer murders as many unsuspecting teenagers as he/she/it possibly can in the space of a 90 minute movie . 
the reasons that the afore mentioned unsuspecting teenagers come into contact with the bloodthirsty killer are usually of little importance to the story . 
but for those of you out there that might actually care about such trivial matters in a movie such as a plot , here are the basics . 
a bunch of unsuspecting teens get a summer job at a long closed summer camp . 
they are days away from the arrival of the kids and they are spending their time fixing the place up and making sure it is ready for the kids . 
sadly , they start being butchered one by one by the bloodthirsty killer . 
at this point i would usually say something about the quality of acting , directing or maybe something about the high quality of the production . 
since i'm not going to do that , feel free to assume that if i did , it wouldn't be positive . 
i will say that this movie looks as if it was made for about a hundred bucks , and that includes the actors' salaries . 
if you are used to recent horror films like scream , you are in for a bit of a surprise . 
the only saving grace for friday the 13th is that it was really the first of its kind , with the killer taking real pride in their work . 
using as many methods of murder as they could . 
none of this single murder weapon stuff life that unimaginative leatherface in chainsaw massacre , or the creatively stifled imagination of halloween's michael myers who just used brute force or a really big kitchen knife . 
nope , in the friday the 13th movies , you can always count on the killer taking great pride in his work . 
one fun fact about this movie is that the cast includes a very young kevin bacon , although after this movie it is a wonder he ever worked again . 
the main reason to see friday the 13th is if you want to watch all of the series from the beginning . 
if not , stick with the later films with jason , everyone's favorite hockey fan . 
friday the 13th is the sort of movie that is fun to sit down and get a couple of scares from , just don't sit down expecting a whole lot . 
there's a good , and timely , story trapped deep within the excess of murder in the first , a new movie about the abuses of our prison system . 
with a country wrapped up in feverish debate over the crime issue and the rights of the accused and the incarcerated in jeopardy , this expose would offer something rare to recent american movies--a point of view . 
but director marc rocco makes it clear from the beginning that pretentious , often nauseating , camera movements and slick , mtv- style lighting and editing are far more important . 
there's not a moment in the picture where he surrenders technique for pure storytelling . 
and everything suffers . 
christian slater and kevin bacon star as defense attorney and alcatraz inmate , respectively . 
after spending an unprecedented amount of time in an isolated cell for attempting to escape , bacon murders another prisoner and faces trial . 
his young lawyer ( slater ) is fresh out of law school but determined to " put alcatraz on trial " for the abuses of it warden ( gary oldman ) . 
the result is the usual courtroom theatrics- imagine a stanley kramer production shot by hyperactive film school students . 
there's very little to praise here outside of kevin bacon's earnest overacting and the appropriate story . 
there's a lot of overacting from everyone--you know you're in trouble right away when r . lee ermey ( the drill sergeant in full metal jacket ) is cast as a judge , the center of reason and moderation . 
slater has never been convincing and certainly isn't here and oldman is on a bad streak of hammy performances . 
but the worst feeling you get while watching murder in the first is that the man behind the camera could care less about telling a good story . 
there are long exchanges of dialogue where the camera is not even moving near the characters , let alone with them . 
how frustrating it must be for actors to work under these conditions . 
if there's anything that has alway distinguished american films over the rest of the world , it is our ability to tell a good story . 
have we forgotten ? 
this is the worst movie i've viewed so far in 98 . 
the avengers = silly = man dressed in a bowler hat + woman wearing tight leathers > evil scientists dressed in teddy bear suits + greater evil , sir august de wynter wearing kilt . 
the question is what could have gone wrong with a potentially great idea with big name cast ? 
the same question was probably asked of last year's stinker batman and robin . 
i feel the production got a little too smug , the script a little to smart and direction was somehow lost in the chaos of random events that collided together to form a movie . 
my greatest criticism rests on the fact that there was no chemistry between emma peel and john steed ( thurman and fiennes ) ? something that was a vital element of the 60's tv serial of the same name . 
the dialogue goes on and on about tea and other finer british perks , but does not allow much room for character development and interaction , except to perhaps grate on the viewer's nerves . 
one wonders why the dynamic pair bother kissing in the end except for pure english formality . 
connery as sir august , does not fair better than thurman or fiennes . 
his dialogue is as erratic as stormy weather , mostly embarrassing and poor quality . 
if there is a movie you would prefer never to see , i believe the avengers would be a good choice . 
for one thing , you will not have to witness a product that is far inferior to the three high profile names that is associated with the title . 
i cannot understand how something so poorly produced could have been released , but i put it down to one of those freak happenings in nature , like lightning you can't see it coming until it hits you . 
synopsis : big-breasted and dim-witted sculptress britt gets really mad at her grad student boyfriend because he spends too much time on his thought-transference experiments instead of her art showings . 
elderly , evil scientist everett longstreet switches minds with britt's boy , in the meantime , and goes completely mental . 
comments : naked souls opens with a naked woman , and the movie makes no illusion that it's a sci-fi vehicle designed to show pamela anderson's , um , talents . 
if you are really interested in seeing anderson's talents , however , i suggest you skip over this dud and watch the infamous pam and tommy lee honeymoon sex tape , now available on home video . 
at least with that " movie , " you don't have to go through the painful experience of watching pamela try to pronounce multiple syllable words like " eclectic . " 
a premise does exist in the movie . 
basically , while anderson wears skimpy clothes which barely contain her talents , she practices her art -- brilliantly slapping plaster of paris on naked women . 
her boyfriend , meanwhile , spends 20 hours a day in a morgue trying to view the memories of dead prison inmates because this will " make a difference to humanity . " 
whatever . 
the movie fails to explain how these two hooked up . 
be grateful . 
after we meet the evil everett longstreet , lots of technobabble and mystical mumbo-jumbo get tossed about , pammy has sex replete with cheesy make-out music , and minds get transferred . 
never fear , though , pammy uses her sharp mental abilities ( ahem ) to save her boyfriend in the end . 
unfortunately , no one saves the movie . 
avoid this would-be sci-fi thriller , unless you're in for a good laugh or two . 
mr . bean , a bumbling security guard from england is sent to la to help with the grandiose homecoming of a masterpiece american painting . 
the first two words should have said enough to let you know what occurs during bean's trip to la , but if they didn't look out because you are in for a rather interesting if not odd ride . 
heck depending on your humor you might end up laughing through the whole flick . 
either way look out america bean is coming . 
well , what can really be said about this movie , there is very little discernible plot . 
that much is not hard to grapple with for it is a slapstick comedy . 
it achieves that goal rather admirably , but because it is that , the plot is just screaming for help . 
the whole premise that the movie is based on is to say the least flawed . 
the movie had its funny moments but there was no real story line other than something that could be thought up on a whim and carried through and in many causes ad-libbed as you went . 
don't go into this movie expecting and theatrical masterpiece . 
but if this form of humor floats your boat then you will truly enjoy this movie , even if you don't like slapstick style humor you will end up laughing because something's are just so stupid . 
the movie goes out and accomplishes what it aims , or so it seems . 
now when you look at the acting in this movie you have to think about two things , first was there any real acting and how hard is it to act in the slapstick manner . 
well , there was no real acting in this movie but some of the slapstick wasn't the easiest i am sure . 
i have to concede that mr . atkinson's acting in this movie is well done . 
although the role isn't too demanding the slapstick is . 
i think that the character could have had a bit more dialogue , it would have added quite a bit to the overall effect of the movie . 
now the rest of the actors in the movie , bad acting and poor casting . 
i think that the role opposite bean could have been better , just seemed wrong for the movie . 
a different actor might have done a better job of it but i wont presume that wasn't what was trying to be achieved . 
one thing that i must say , simply to get if off my chest is that i think transferring a sitcom to tv usually produces rather disastrous results . 
tv shows should do just that stay on tv , it will probably save some producers from getting ulcers . 
i can only think of a couple examples of tv going to the big screen effectively , the best known of those would have to be star trek . 
bean seriously fails to accomplish anything close to what that series gone movie achieved . 
now another thing that i have to state again is this movie has narrowed its target audience fairly tightly . 
the form of humor in this movie will not be liked by most people , these people will think like i did that this movie is stupid and pointless . 
but if you like the tv show you might actually like this movie . 
but to be on the safe side i am opting to recommend you save your money and not go to see this movie . 
there are many movies that are truly worth seeing unlike this one . 
wonderland is a rather sugary romance film that is as subtle as a ton of bricks falling on you . 
you can see its plot developing from a mile away . you 
are lured into its benign story of a single 29-year-old girl looking for a soul mate in boston , as that city is depicted as a mini-wonderland for singles . 
this is a star oriented film , and the star who carries the film is erin ( hope davis ) . 
that this is a dating film , about singles who for reasons of fate or luck , or whatnot , have not had a successful match and are now putting most of their energy into fulfilling their careers , is nothing new , this type of film has been done often and better many times in contemporary films . 
the fictionalized documentary unmade beds did it more provocatively and with more of a sense of urgency than this film . the 
main quirk in the plot here , is that hope's pushy mother ( hollan ) visits her in boston , sees her daughter's live-in relationship with a radical protester ( hoffman ) breakup and decides to put a personal ad in the newspaper for her harvard medical school drop-out daughter , who works as a nurse . 
this is done without her knowledge . 
it is cornball sitcom stuff , but , at least , it is handled as best it could be by the actors and director . 
it is easy to like erin , she is bright , caring , and attractively blonde . 
it is equally easy to care for the soul mate she keeps missing contact with , the financially strapped , ruggedly handsome , intelligent 35-year-old alan ( alan ) , who no longer wants to work with his father as a plumber but is doing volunteer work at the aquarium and attending college to be a marine biologist . 
of course , he comes across as being so good ( though , he does kill some fish in the aquarium ) , that it is hard to believe he's for real , or just some cardboard shining knight put into the story to give it an ideal to shoot for . 
the contrived story revolves around their near misses in meeting each other in such spots as , the subway , at a restaurant , or on the phone . 
alan's brother answers erin's ad with a few of his pals , as they each try to respond to her ad in a phony way , making a bet that the first who gets to tongue kiss her , that the others witness , will win the bet . 
this sub-plot was as obnoxious to see take place as it is to hear told . 
that we have to see erin go through several dates to prove the point how ego sick these guys are , each one more annoying than the other , culminating in the most obnoxious one of all , that brazilian lover ( jose ) , who is about as charming as a snake-oil salesman , who is actually the one she nearly flies away with for a holiday in brazil , was not only incredulous but downright contrary to the rich presentation of her character that was the heart of the story . 
anyway , as expected , all's well that ends well , for this watchable piece of fluff , that comes over on screen better than it does when relating its story-line . 
the dialogue was actually not bad , those dating erin or trying to flirt with her seemed to be uttering authentic things they would actually say in their situation . 
and , oh , by the way , wonderland refers to the stop on the boston metro , it is where greyhound racing takes place . 
be warned . . 
brit love story in the offing . 
effeminate , mild-mannered karl is about to take a beatng from a bunch of ruffians at school as he bathes himself under a shower , his genitals tucked between his legs in the manner of a posing transvestite . 
he is only just saved by prentice , who appears in all respects barring his protective attitude towards karl to be your average street-wise punk-in-the-making . 
the ensuing scene ends up with both boys being ridiculed and then unfairly expelled from the school . 
they do not see each other for another eighteen yeas . 
in that time , prentice has matured into a somewhat loveable , if brash and bull-heaed goon who screws up his jobs and relationships while gamely clinging onto perennial adolescence via lether jackets , motorcycles and punk rock music . 
karl , on the other hand , has grown up to become kim , a drabby , insecure woman who works as a verse writer for a greeting card company . 
chance brings the two together , and love , such as will inevitably blossom in your quirky british romantic comedy , is what this skewed little story is largely about . 
if at this point you think you're going to get any cheap laughs with that gender-bending theme ( see the birdcage , to wong foo . . . , priscilla queen of the desert ) , you can just go home and brood on your own maladjusted sexuality you low-life deadbeat . 
kim is a post-operative transsexual , thank you very much . . . 
a new-born woman for all purposes , with confusions and sensitivities that deserve treatment with a touch of delicacy . 
personally , give me those cheap laughs any day . 
i'd rather enjoy obvious camp than endure the shallow exploration of a soft- hearted transsexual love story . 
different for girls comes up with a promising enough proposition , but does nothing that surpasses the merely workmanlike with it . 
by refusing to make the audience really uncomfortable with the notion of kim and prentice's relation- ship , or at the very least feel uncomfortable for them ( prentice for example , doesn't seem to give hiself all that much grief when he becomes attracted to kim despite being a fight-picking , beer-drinking , macho kind of guy , and kim , for all her insecurities and fears is always saved any truly disturbing victimisation in the film ) , and instead drawing them into a basically wimpy love story , the film manages to lobotomise itself . 
lightweight comedy as it's doomed to be , it could've still have hacked it with the requisitive endearing couple . 
but this doesn't either , since even mrs doubtfire is sexier than steven mackintosh's kim foyle , and as either sex , he's just plainly a simpering wanker nobody should like . 
prentice does though , and that's never explained . 
but then rupert graves gives us so heroic performance as prentice , the guy who never grew up ( and if there is a bafta prize for most convincing portrayal of a rabid fan at a buzzcocks' concert , he should win that too ) that i guess there's no reason to explain why he's so screwed up . 
if oddly enough you grow to like this show , you'll be wanting your happy ending , and the film won't fail you there either . 
snide underling at kim's office gets her come-uppance . 
misogynistic police officer who beats up prentice gets his come-uppance . 
the couple prevail against a disagreeable society and come together in kim's apartment . 
kim's sister and her impotent sarge-type husband kiss and make up after a tiff ( tv movie sub-plot with incidental juxtaposition ) . 
and best of all , kim sheds her insecurities and learns how to ride the motorcycle and wear leathers , making prentice ride pilion . 
awwww . 
terrific closure . 
happy ending . 
but just what is it that's differnt for girls anyway ? 
if you figure that one out , let me know . 
the flying inkpot rating system : * wait for the tv2 broadcast . 
 * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha ! 
 * * * pretty good , bring a friend . 
 * * * * amazing , potent stuff . 
 * * * * * perfection . 
see it twice . 
a silly film that tries to be a black comedy but plays more like lightweight comedy , with its main asset being a beautiful film location along spain's mountainous coastline . 
howard pigeon ( jeff goldblum ) is a 40-year-old mineral water salesman who is married for 13 years to a wife constantly nagging him , elizabeth ( mimi rogers ) . 
after a surprise birthday party for him , where his wife bawls him out for coming late to his surprise party , he confides to his best friend that he can't stand it anymore , and then tells him his plan to kill her while vacationing in the same barcelona hotel where they spent their honeymoon . 
jeff is going through a severe mid-life crises , worried that he looks older than his age . 
he incessantly talks to himself , mostly agonizing over his bitter marriage and chastising himself why he went out with elizabeth for a second time , and then why he married her just because she laughed at his jokes and was attractive . 
he stutters and acts like a man who has lost his confidence . 
things change on their vacation , as elizabeth makes an effort to be nice while jeff now becomes the grouch . 
he nervously rehearses his murder plan in the hotel room . 
by accident the gun goes off and into the pillow where he imagined elizabeth would be sitting . 
when other hotel guests and staff come to check about the gunshot , he nervously explains that it was the tv . 
realizing how unworkable his plan is , he places the gun in the shattered pillow and throws it into the ocean while he waits for elizabeth . 
but elizabeth found his behavior odd during the entire trip , and when after a great deal of effort to get a reservation at the hotel's 5 star restaurant he insists on eating in the room , she decides she had enough of him and checks out without telling him . 
as a result , he goes to the police to report her missing . 
while with the police , a telegram comes from his wife saying she left him and is going away because she wants to be alone . 
his boss and all those he works with are sympathetic to him , and he gets a job promotion . 
but soon the pillow with the gun is fished out of the water , giving the police cause to arrest him and search his home . 
there they find letters he has written incriminating him to the murder . 
the police also find out from the hotel staff about the gunshot heard in his room . 
in jail , things look bad for him . 
no one believes him , including his friends and lawyer . 
his boss fires him and the papers have a field day with the headline story : pigeon : a jailbird . 
out on bail , he realizes that his only hope is to track down his wife . 
through a call placed on his credit card , he tracks her down to a mountain resort . 
once there he learns that she took a hike up the steep mountain and he gets a priest to be his mountain guide after telling him the true story . 
the film is watchable just for the antics of the jeff goldblum comic performance . 
he is someone coming apart by the seams , while mimi rogers is his perfect foil . 
it was mostly pantomine humor , with the comedy charged in the changing facial expressions of the characters and the absurdity of the situation . 
a very minor farce that might appeal to the sitcom crowd . 
the film just didn't take its situation seriously and the story had many gaps in it , so it had no chance for black humor to develop . 
it instead played its set-up of the henpecked husband acting out his fantasy strictly for entertainment value to see how many chuckles it could draw . 
 * * * be warned . . . 
the following review contains some harsh language * * * 
the blair witch project . 
quite possibly the least scariest movie of all time . 
if you want to see real terror on the big screen go back and watch any scene with jar jar binks in the phantom menace , because this movie is not scary or even remotely creepy . 
my colleague and friend chuck dowling wrote that if less is more , then the blair witch filmmakers must have thought that nothing is more . 
and this worked for him . 
well , i'm sorry , but nothing . . . 
is nothing ! ! ! ! ! 
nothing is not more . 
it's nothiiiiiinggggggggggg ! ! ! ! ! ! . 
i do not pay 5 dollars to see nothing . 
 " nothing " is free , available all around the world at a location near you . 
i am absolutely in amazement that some people find this movie scary . 
i could just discount them and say , " well , i guess they are just pansy chicken shits who are probably scared of their own shadow . " 
but i have intelligent friends who like this movie and so that doesn't hold water . 
there must be some other reason . 
 ( then again , maybe my first thought is correct , i think i'll try pointing their shadow out to them one day and test their reaction . ) 
when i hear people praising this film , i never hear them talking about what makes up about 97% of this movie : three kids bickering with each other about being lost . 
they only talk about what might make up possibly 3 to 4 minutes of screen time . 
this being a few very short night scenes where the kids hear some unscary sounds and another where they shout " josh ! ! " 
over and over . 
this film should not be called the blair witch project , it should more accurately be called three dumb and pisspoor filmmakers get lost . . . 
and argue with each other . 
oh ladies and gentlemen you will be so scared when you hear them shouting " josh ! ! " . 
and if you thought that was scary , wait till you see a pile of rocks , and then some tinkertoy lincoln logs , oh my dear lord you will be pissing in your pants with fear . 
oh yeah , and some goo on one of their backpacks . 
you've never seen terror like this folks , and you don't want to . 
the chevy chase/goldie hawn comedy foul play is creepier than this film . 
 ( for current films , i highly recommend the sixth sense or a stir of echoes for a creepy filmgoing experience . ) 
this film is an example of marketing with no substance . 
the marketing was brilliant , and the whole nation is in awe of just the premise for the film . 
they want this film to be good . 
and i think they are reaching and praising the wrong movie because they don't have anything else to praise . 
that wonderful film that rejuvenates the horror genre may come along , but this is not it . 
this film could have been so much better . 
just think , if maybe there had been only 10 minutes of arguing about being lost , and 80 minutes of nighttime stuff . 
i saw this movie with a girl who was extremely pumped for it . 
she was sold on this film . 
and then , at one point during it , she turned to me and asked ' . . . are 
we supposed to be scared by this ? ' . 
i've heard one opinion that you " have to use your imagination " to create the fear in this movie . 
well , i thought that was what the filmmakers were supposed to do . 
use their imagination and create a good movie . 
i mean anyone can use their imagination and not pay 5 bucks for it . 
but even if you like this idea , then what are you imagining ? 
an entity called the blair witch ? 
some rednecks fucking with these kids ? 
are either of these things really scary when you think about it ? ? ? 
i've heard several people say that this movie makes them recall how scary it can be to be out in the woods and hear something . 
well sure thats scary in real life , but there are a lot of things that are scary in real life that are not scary in a movie nor even interesting . 
you could sit in your house and see a snake or a spider and it could be scary , but in a film it wouldn't be . 
and no , a movie does not need a big budget or cgi special effects to be scary or creepy . 
actually the less the better ( see the equally awful remake of the haunting ) . 
but you have to do something . 
you cant just count on us all having nostalgic memories of how something like this could be scary , if it were real . 
and by the way , about the shakycam filming in blair witch . 
aren't these supposed to be " filmmakers " who should know how to point a camera and shoot something without shaking the camera constantly ? 
i'm not even talking about the couple scenes where they are terrified , that's justified . 
i'm talking about the other 87 minutes of the movie where they can't seem to shoot anything smoothly at all . 
minor quibble there . 
there is a feeling in me that the people that like this movie are suckers . 
that the filmmakers are just laughing their asses off all the way to the bank . 
and i think there is a good chance they will see this film again and say to themselves " what was i thinking ? ? " . 
but , if they don't , then thats fine . 
if it works for them then that's okay i guess . 
i just lament that by making this movie a hit , we are going to be subjected to more of the " nothing is more " approach . 
pretty soon we're going to get some movies like this : just a still shot of a prison jail cell . 
for 90 minutes . 
and we'll have to use our imagination and think to ourselves , " my god , wouldn't it be scary to spend life in prison ? ! ! 
this movie is the scariest movie of all time ! ! ! ! ! " . 
or , a shot of a coffin , with some funeral directors arguing with each other . 
 " man , do you know how scary it would be to die ? ? ? ! ! ! ! 
now this is the scariest movie of all time ! ! ! ! " 
[r] 
there were four movies that earned jamie lee curtis the title of " scream queen " in the early '80s . 
two of them were halloween movies , but the other two -- prom night and terror train -- were the uninspired knockoffs that came directly after the success of halloween . 
the same " god , i'm scared , there's some guy in a mask coming after me " routine she did in john carpenter's classic , jamie lee copies here , with none of the urgency or suspense . 
terror train takes place on ( where else ? ) a train , charted by some pre-med students finishing their first four years of higher education . 
most of them won't make it to med school , though , and it's obvious from the foreshadowing done when the conductor complains , " i wish to hell they'd put a radio on that train . " 
the conductor character probably has the most lines of anyone , even jamie lee . 
from the beginning , he's talking his head off ( he tells one of his co-workers " think on this -- when's the last time someone built a shopping mall next to a train station ? " 
as if it makes any kind of sense ) and it only gets better as he engages himself in an argument about the benefits of railroad over recreational vehicles . 
of course , the loudmouth conductor is the first person to find a bloody body , which is then gone when he brings a skeptical trainman back to view it . 
i forgot to mention the prologue . 
it's a party three years earlier , with the same group of students . 
two of them play a trick on a geeky frat pledge , promising him he's going to get laid . 
they send jamie lee up to stand behind the bed and talk to the geek as he comes in , noticing a form on the bed . 
she says , " kiss me , kenny , " and he kisses the body on the bed , which happens to be a cadaver . 
 ( " oh my god , they killed kenny ! 
you bastards ! " ) 
it's a sick trick , and one jamie lee wasn't let in on . 
she still hasn't forgiven the guy as they board the terror train ( " you asshole , you can't have a good time without hurting somebody ! " ) . 
the killing starts before the train even leaves the station . 
since it's new year's , everyone's wearing disguises ( a convenient plot device we've seen before ) , and someone stabs the guy in the groucho mask when no one's looking . 
at least one of the characters says it's a groucho mask ; when the killer dons it and steps aboard , it looks like gene shalit who , by the way , would make a great killer in a slasher movie . 
speaking of weird-looking dorks who still persist on the entertainment scene , one of terror train's most famous gimmicks is the appearance of david copperfield " as the magician , " who regails those aboard with illusions set to disco music . 
then there's his greatest trick -- getting laid with hair that looks like that . 
for all its attempts at visual style and substance , terror train is more lionel than amtrak , more prom night than halloween , and nothing really worth watching . 
only die-hard fans of jamie lee curtis and david copperfield ( if he truly has any fans ) should even attempt to watch it . 
and it makes me wonder if a horror movie set in an rv could be much worse . 
i mean , when was the last time someone built a shopping mall next to a train station , anyway ? 
terror train is definitely the cinematic equivalent of a sleeper car . 
according to hitchcock and various other filmmakers , isolated motels , diners , gas stations and similar establishments in american southwest can be rather dangerous place for weary travellers . 
at the beginning of eye of the storm , 1991 german- american thriller directed by yuri zeltser , one of such places becomes deadly for their owners who get murdered during the stick up . 
ten years later their son steven ( played by bradley gregg ) , who was blinded during the incident , still runs motel together with his older brother ray ( played by craig sheffer ) . 
hardly anything happens there until alcoholic and abusive william gladstone ( played by dennis hopper ) gets stranded there with his attractive wife sandra ( played by lara flynn boyle ) . 
their unexpected presence creates the chain of the events that would end in bloodshed . 
yuri zeltser , author of this film , was obviously inspired by hitchcock's psycho , but he chose to add some new and potentially interesting elements to the original plot . 
instead of norman bates we have two brothers - one of them traumatised physically , another mentally . 
sexual tension between beautiful female patron and shy motel clerk is heightened with the presence of alcoholic husband . 
eye of the storm is impressive in visual sense , with photography by karl walter lindenlaub providing a lot of claustrophobic atmosphere . 
the acting is fine - hopper , gregg and boyle are comfortable with their roles , but sheffer at times overacts his psycho routine . 
unfortunately , eye of the storm , which was supposed to be intense psychological drama , deteriorates into cheap and predictable slasher flick during melodramatic finale . 
in the end , this film reminds us that original approach can't prevent filmmakers from wasting too many opportunities . 
 ( special note to the profiler fans : ally walker appears in the beginning of the film in the small role of killer's girlfriend . ) 
if you've been following william fichtner's career ( and there's absolutely no reason why you should have ) , you might have noticed that he's played some rather similar roles over the years . 
like sully in " the perfect storm " --tough , gruff , and a little bit scary . 
or law in " albino alligator " --tough , gruff , and little bit scarier . 
or colonel william sharp in " armageddon , " or dwayne engelman in " strange days , " or even his brief appearance towards the beginning of " pearl harbor , " as the abusive father of danny--here is an actor who gravitates towards tough , gruff , hard-hitting roles . 
which is why his performance in " what's the worst that could happen ? " 
is such a shock , such a delight . 
in the film , fichtner plays a blonde haired , meticulously dressed , overtly effeminate , dog-loving detective . 
as alex tardio , fichtner's performance borders on caricature but goes beyond it . 
it borders on offensive but doesn't really manage it . 
and it borders on clich ? d stereotype but doesn't quite succumb to that definition either . 
in a role so diametrically opposed to what the actor has played before we should have seen it coming , fichtner isn't perfect--you can see him struggling a little at times , concentrating a little too hard on the look as he swishes his hand through the air , or nuzzles a coiffed canine up close and personal--but he's pretty damned good , and silly , and without question the best thing in the film . 
in fact , had it not been for fitchner's sudden and bizarre appearance , and his jarring screen presence thereafter , i would have walked out , for " what's the worst that could happen ? " 
is mesmerizing in its awfulness , a poorly written , haphazardly edited , and totally unfunny ( yes , it stars martin lawrence and danny devito so how could that be possible ? ) 
moviegoing experience . 
fichtner's performance doesn't exactly save the film , and it's not like i'm recommending " what's the worst that could happen ? " 
solely on the strength of the actor's dramatic turnaround , but his contributions do raise the film's rating from no stars to one-and-a-half . 
thumbs up to fichtner then , and thumbs down--way , way , down--to everyone else involved in this sorry mess , a movie so dull and pedestrian and nonsensical it doesn't even warrant discussion . 
note : some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers . 
be forewarned . 
it's rather easy to start tuning out after about twenty minutes of finn taylor's first feature film , dream with the fishes , when the plodding , tedious opening sequence finally pays off with a potentially provocative setup . 
any hopeful expectations , however , are soon vanquished as the film settles upon being an uninvolving mismatched-buddy movie which is rarely as funny as it aspires to be nor nearly as affecting as it eventually strives to be in the film's latter half . 
the film's central characters are terry ( david arquette ) , a depressed , lonely voyeur who claims to be despondent since the death of his wife in an automobile accident , and nick ( brad hunt ) , a carefree young street tough later revealed to be terminally ill . 
nick lives in the apartment building across from terry , who spies on the trysts between nick and girlfriend liz ( kathryn erbe ) with his trusty set of binoculars , but the two young men first formally meet at the bay bridge where a half-drunk terry precariously teeters upon the edge , unconvincingly vowing suicide . 
nick casually asks for terry's wristwatch , and eventually cons terry into a trade - the watch for a bottle of pills . 
of course , terry finds that the pills do not end up having the presumed lethal effects , and he angrily sets out to find nick in order to retrieve his watch . 
learning of nick's condition ( he only has a handful of weeks left ) , terry's compassion kicks in , and the two eventually come to a distinctly peculiar arrangement - terry will agree to bankroll the dying nick's lifelong fantasies , and nick will fulfill terry's death wish by killing him . 
this is a promising premise , and mr . taylor's film could have gone any number of ambitious ways from this point , but he instead chooses to capitalise upon the obvious inversion of the characters ( terry is a repessed , mournful character who wants to die , while nick is a free spirit with a joie de vivre who is dying but wants to live ) and takes the easy route out by turning dream with the fishes into a typical lark where the two characters engage in a series of generally dull exploits , and where the straight-laced character learns to enjoy and ppreciate life when hooked up with a quirky character . 
this is by-the-numbers plotting , buddy movie/road movie redux . 
however , dream with the fishes is most hampered not by its uninspired storyline , but by the characters which carry the story - it helps in such a film to have at least one of the protagonists be at least somewhat empathetic , if not likeable . 
unfortunately , that is not the case here , where both of the film's leading characters are thorougly uninteresting and annoying , giving the audience very little to sympathise with their respective plights , and even less reason to want to follow their onscreen exploits . 
far from a romp , this fatal flaw makes dream with fishes more like a chore to endure than a playful jaunt , and undermines the attempts at emotional resonance in the latter stages of the film as the two men begin to bond . 
mr . taylor's dialogue sporadically falls flat in dream with the fishes - while attempting to capture a quirky and clever tone , it too often comes across instead as hopelessly contrived ( witness such lines as " you should have asked something more interesting , like 'do you enjoy the pain ? ' 
- see , that's provocative , leaves room for further questions . " ) 
the film enjoys a few inspired moments - the urn scene , a session of nude bowling , the policeman joining in on terry and nick's acid trip - but unfortunatetely these instances are few and far between , and for the most part the humour in dream with the fishes registers more as attempts rather than actual successes . 
this occurs particularly often during the film's opening sequence - as terry is wrestling the bedridden nick for his watch in the hospital , i'm realising that this is * intended * to be funny , although nary a smile crept upon my lips - which is probably due to the obvious fact that it's painfully clear to the audience from the outset that terry is going to be thwarted in his initial suicide attempts , sapping any element of surprise or amusement from nick's scheme of tricking him ; this is not a film which has the wherewithal to kill off its leading star in the opening ten minutes . 
the entire sequence is , then , clearly an exercise for character exposition , with attempts at humour terribly diminished by utter predictability . 
among the cast , coming off best is david arquette , the current master in the portrayal of meek , squirming , stammering fresh-faced characters - he would have been terrific as the lead for george huang's swimming with sharks - who gets to apply his adeptness for timidity as terry . 
mr . taylor ambitiously employs an interesting visual technique , where the portions of the film set in an urban environment have been processed to appear extremely grainy and heavily saturated , as opposed to a bright , crisp look for the smalltown scenes . 
the charge of dream with the fishes's protagonists being wholly unempathetic is a bit of an odd one coming from me ; i seem to have a predilection for films with unlikeable characters , and indeed , in many cases have i been in the minority , supporting films which have been condemned as interminable due to the difficult , audience-unfriendly nature of their characters . 
for dream with the fishes , though , i did find myself on the flip side of coin , often hoping that the film would quickly conclude , and that the nick character would just hurry up and die . 
for his directoral debut , gary oldman chose a highly personal family drama about a violent , alcoholic husband and father , and the various lives he affects . 
but while the characters , places and events may have special meaning to the writer-director , the audience is left in the dark . 
the center of this tale is the abusive raymond ( ray winstone ) , and the film focuses on him and the people who orbit around him . 
he spends his days hanging out with his friends at pubs and girlie bars . 
then , he returns home to his pregnant wife , valerie ( kathy burke ) and their five-year-old daughter . 
raymond demonstrates his violent tendencies ( and his paranoid delusions ) early on when he accuses valerie's brother , billy ( charlie creed-miles ) , of stealing . 
raymond then proceed to beat ( and bite ) him to a bloody wreck . 
but these are the least of billy's problems . 
billy is a heroin addict on the downturn , and it doesn't seem that he'll last much longer . 
billy and valerie's mother , janet ( laila morse ) , is raymond's nemesis . 
she disapproves of him ( and he of her ) , but is powerless to do anything about it . 
she merely struggles on , hoping her children will survive their respective torments . 
if this description seems bleak , i haven't told the half of it . 
this is not a cheery movie , and most of the time it's downright depressing . 
while at times it is interesting to watch to see just what makes raymond tick , and why no one ever simply calls the cops on him , in the end , it's not quite worth it . 
there are too many scenes which randomly dot the picture with little or no purpose . 
take for example the extended sequence where one of billy's scuzzy friends defends a stray puppy . 
the film is filled with these " character moments " that never really achieve anything . 
granted , there are a few genuinely powerful ( and sickening ) moments in the film , but their expression seems to be more of a catharsis for the creator than us . 
the actors do a fine job , particularly in the central roles . 
the good thing about an actor turned writer is that oldman knows how to write good scenes , and the actors in nil by mouth have some meat they can tear into . 
the bad thing about an actor turned director is that there's no one to restrain oldman from making poor choices . 
a good character drama should mean something to those involved in making the film and the audience . 
oldman got it about half right . 
my first exposure to the nightmare on elm street series of films was not this one , but in fact the third installment ( it was the first to gain a national theatrical release ) . 
i didn't see the first film until much later . 
so looking back , the original didn't hold a lot of great memories for me , since i didn't think too much of it when i initially saw it . 
watching it now for a second time confirmed that it's an overrated horror film that ultimately makes no sense whatsoever . 
you all know the story by now : child murderer freddy krueger ( robert englund ) returns from the grave by haunting the dreams of the children of those who burned him alive years before . 
this first installment does an adequate job with it's low budget , but there's some absurd dialogue and conceptual problems with the story . 
plus the movie's ending ( understandably the result of the studio wanting the end of the film to have a " hook " for a sequel ) renders the rest of the film pointless . 
and does anyone understand what happens to nancy's mother at the end of this film ? 
don't get me wrong though . . . 
it's not as if a new generation of horror films have spurned me away from the classics . 
most horror movies released today are just as inane as this film is . 
horror is a difficult genre to pull off credibly , and a nightmare on elm street just doesn't cut it . 
a nightmare on elm street is available on dvd from new line home video . 
it is available both as a single disc and as part of the nightmare on elm street collection box set . 
the film is presented in both pan and scan and it's original theatrical aspect ratio of 1 . 78 : 1 ( although on the disc that comes in the box set , only a widescreen transfer is provided ) . 
the film has been digitally remastered and includes two options for audio : a mono mix and a new dolby digital 5 . 1 mix . 
also included on the dvd is a full-length audio commentary track with writer/director wes craven , stars john saxon and heather langenkamp , and the film's director of photography . 
other extras include the " jump to a nightmare " feature ( i'm sure you can figure that one out ) , the usual cast and crew bios ( which are from the film's original press release kit , and notably leave out robert englund and johnny depp ! ) , and the film's original theatrical trailer . 
some dvd-rom features are also included , but since i don't have dvd-rom capabilities i can't really get into that . 
the commentary track is entertaining and informative , but nothing spectacular . 
the first thing of note is that it's the same commentary track that was on the special edition laserdisc from a few years ago . 
i'm not saying that's a negative thing , just pointing it out . 
everyone seems enthusiastic about being there , with the possible exception of john saxon , who just doesn't say much at all . 
most of the time you'll forget he's even there . 
everyone else talks really quietly though for some reason , as if because they're commenting on a scary movie that they need to stay as quiet as possible . 
the bonus disc with the boxed set called the nightmare series encyclopedia features about 45 minutes worth of interviews relating to the first film of the series . 
also included is the original theatrical trailer and two alternate endings to the film . . . 
however you can only access one easily . 
the other is hidden in what's called " the labyrinth " , which might possibly be the most annoying feature of a dvd ever created . 
basically , it's an interactive game of sorts where you wander through different nightmare locations looking at objects which give you access to extra little snippets of footage , interviews , etc . somewhere in the labyrinth is the second alternate ending to the film . 
finding it though is both a chore and a bore . 
[r] 
in 1989 , tim burton took the legendary comic book figure of batman and turned him into a huge box office hit with an atmospheric little film that created an utterly distinct feeling somewhere between film noir and the godfather . 
was it " deep " ? 
nope . 
however it was a perfect entertainment and the audience ate it up . 
it was natural that roger ebert trashed it writing that it was " without the comic book uplift " of the indiana jones and superman pictures . 
which was true . 
if what you were looking for was the tale of a heroic man's escadapes and adventures you were looking in the wrong place . 
if those films were tom sawyer , then batman was huckleberry finn . 
some critics ( glenn lovell of the san jose mercury news and peter travers of rolling stone ) realized that it was something special ; mr . lovell gave it * * * 1/2 and wrote that " this is batman as batman should be . " ; 
mr . travers called it one of the ten best films of the year . 
the praise was deserved - from start to finish the film was enthralling , exciting , and superb in every respect . 
there was no doubt that there would be a sequel directed by burton . 
the result was batman returns which forgets that it wants to be fun within the first five minutes . 
the villains ( the hideous penguin and seductive catwoman ) take over , and our epectations are always left unfulfilled - when we wanted the penguin to bite off batman's nose he simply gets mad , and when we want catwoman to slither over batman's body she gets pushed off a building . 
i admire mr . burton for trying to do more then entertain , but the result is a mess . 
nothing works out as planned - it fails both to entertain and to enlighten . 
hints are made to the audience that this film could be a blast . 
alas , these are only hints . 
there are , don't misunderstand me , several moments of cinematic genuis contained ; catwoman and batman understand eachother perfectly without a word on the subject being said ; christopher lloyd is trapped , by the penguin , within a giant cage ; a small basket is dropped into a large river ; but nothing is drawn together and burton is unable to make the film work on any regular basis . 
a weak followup , both career and sequel wise , batman returns is sometimes dazzling , but to often dissapointing . 
and i thought " stigmata " would be the worst religiously-oriented thriller released this year . 
turns out i was wrong , because while " stigmata " was merely boring and self-important , " end of days " is completely inept on all fronts . 
it's a silly , incomprehensible , endlessly stupid mess . 
for a guy like me who grew up watching arnold schwarzenegger at his best , it's extremely disconcerting to see where the big man has ended up . 
for the first time in recent memory , an arnold action movie ( and " batman & robin " doesn't count ) is no fun at all . 
 " end of days " is a major stinker . 
the movie opens in vatican city , 1979 . 
some catholic priests have observed an ancient prophecy , which says that a girl will be born on that night that satan will have targeted for impregnation . 
if he impregnates her between 11 and midnight on december 31 , 1999 , the world will be destroyed . 
the pope orders protection of this girl , though some priests believe she ought to be killed . 
in new york , that very night , a girl is born to fulfill the prophecy . 
twenty years later , we meet jericho cane ( schwarzenegger ) , a suicidal ex-cop with a drinking problem . 
now working as a security guard for hire , he is protecting a local businessman ( gabriel byrne ) , who is actually possessed by the devil . 
an assassination attempt on the businessman by a crazed former priest leads him to the girl satan is after , christine york ( robin tunney ) . 
recognizing elements of his own murdered daughter in christine ( including ownership of the same music box , apparently ) , jericho swears to protect her against the devil and the faction of priests looking to kill her . 
there are so many problems with this film it's hard to know where to begin , but how about starting with the concept ? 
casting arnold in a role like this was a mistake to begin with . 
schwarzenegger is a persona , not an actor , so putting him in a role that contradicts his usual strong personality is a bad idea . 
arnold has neither the dramatic range nor the speaking ability to pull off a character tormented by conflicting emotions . 
in other words , trying to give him dimension was a mistake . 
harrison ford , mel gibson , or even bruce willis could have played this role ( they've all played noble and flawed heroes ) , but not schwarzenegger . 
there are several scenes that attempt to establish jericho's character ; one has him contemplating suicide , another crying over the loss of his wife and daughter , and even one in which the devil tries to tempt him into revealing christine's location by offering him his old life back . 
none of these scenes really work , because arnie isn't up to the task . 
the filmmakers would have been better off making jericho a strong , confident character ( like the terminator , for example ) , the likes of which schwarzenegger has excelled in before . 
this one isn't at all believable the way arnold plays him . 
the supporting cast tries their hardest , and only gabriel byrne makes any impact at all . 
as the prince of darkness , he's suave and confident . 
he acts like one would expect the devil to act . 
the problem is that the script has him doing things that make no sense ( more on that later ) and that undermines him as a powerful villain . 
byrne out-performs arnold in every scene they have together ( including the aforementioned temptation bit ) , but this is problematic when it causes the audience to start doing the unthinkable : root for the devil . 
byrne's speech about the bible being " overrated " actually starts to make sense , mainly because arnold's attempts at refuting it ( mostly of the " 'tis not ! " 
variety ) are feeble at best . 
the only problem is , arnold has to win , so in the end , nobody really cares . 
kevin pollack plays jericho's security guard sidekick and tries to liven things up with some comic asides , but like most bad action movie sidekicks , he disappears after about an hour . 
robin tunney isn't given much to do except look scared . 
in fact , all of the supporting players are good actors , but none , save for byrne , is given anything interesting to do . 
performances aside , it would be really hard to enjoy this film no matter who starred in it . 
this being an action blockbuster , it's no surprise that the worst thing about it is the script , which starts off totally confusing , and when some of it is explained ( and not much of it is ) , it's utterly ridiculous . 
why is the devil coming on new year's eve , 1999 ? 
because it's exactly 1000 years after the year of the devil , which isn't 666 , it turns out . 
some nutty priest accidentally read it upside down , so the real year is 999 , so just add a 1 to the beginning , and you've got 1999 ! 
if you don't buy this explanation , you're not alone . 
it's convoluted and silly at the same time . 
the method by which jericho locates christine york is equally ludicrous ( she's christine , see , and she lives in new york , see . 
 . 
 . ) , and if that weren't bad enough , there's plenty of bothersome stuff in this film that isn't explained at all . 
why can satan kill everyone he passes on the street , but when it comes to snuffing out one drunk ex-cop , he's powerless ? 
is he impervious to only one kind of bullet ? 
how come he can't control jericho or christine ? 
and how did those gregorian monks deal with time zones in their prophecies ? 
a clumsy attempt at a joke is made about this , but it's never actually explained . 
usually , this sort of thing wouldn't matter in a schwarzenegger flick ( i mean , don't get me started on the time paradoxes offered up by the terminator movies ) , but this time the plot inconsistencies stand out even more than usual because the action is rarely exciting . 
there are several predictable horror film clich ? s present in " end of days , " complete with the old " black cat hiding in a cabinet " bit , not that we ever find out what the cat was doing in there . 
it gets so formulaic that it's possible for those uninterested in being scared to close their eyes at the precise moment a " boo " will come . 
their predictions will rarely be wrong . 
the more grandiose action sequences are utterly charmless , partially because we don't care about these characters ( due to the script's pathetic attempts at characterization and setup ) , and also because they , too , don't make any sense . 
there's a scene where schwarzenegger gets thrown around a room by a little old lady . 
it's good for a few chuckles , but not much else . 
supposedly we're to believe she now has super strength by virtue of being controlled by satan , but the script never sets that up , so the scene is merely silly . 
none of this is terribly exciting , because all the action sequences are so badly framed that it's often hard to tell why it's happening in the first place , not to mention that they're edited in full-on incomprehensible mtv quick-cut style . 
most of them had me scratching my head , rather than saying , " wow , cool ! " 
 " end of days " is not only silly and confusing , but it's also distinctly unpleasant to watch . 
the devil apparently doesn't operate in the more subtle , i'll-convince-people-to-kill-each-other fashion outlined in the bible , but instead enjoys killing people gruesomely in broad daylight . 
this doesn't only make him an awfully predictable sort , but it also means that not a single scene in " end of days " goes by without unnecessarily graphic violence , or the odd kinky sexual encounter ( yet another bit that had me scratching my head ) . 
if violence is supposed to be shocking , it's not a good idea to throw so much of it into a movie that the audience goes numb . 
scenes aren't connected through any reasonable means , so a lot of the time , stuff gets blown up , or people get killed , and i had no idea why . 
reasons ? 
to hell with reasons ! 
let's just blow stuff up ! 
isn't it cool ? 
nope , not by a long shot . 
this film is thoroughly unwatchable . 
it's dull , interminable , and unrelenting in its stupidity . 
perhaps arnold needs to make some movies with james cameron to revive his career , because it's not happening with hack peter hyams here . 
 " end of days " might have had camp value , if only it didn't top itself off with an overly pious ending that nobody's going to buy . 
if the movie is going to be serious , the filmmakers should have come up with a decent script . 
if it's going to be campy , arnold shouldn't be taking himself so damn seriously ( i didn't actually see him put up on a cross , did i ? ) , and his character shouldn't be such a sad sack . 
as it stands , " end of days " is just a bad movie , and an awfully gloomy one at that . 
stephen , please post if appropriate . 
 " mafia ! " - crime isn't a funny business by homer yen ( c ) 1998 
on a particular night when i found myself having some free time , i had a chance to either go to sleep early or to see " mafia ! " , a spoof of mafia and crime films such as " the godfather , " " goodfellas " and " casino " . 
at 84 minutes in length , i thought that i could enjoy a few laughs before getting a good nights sleep . 
but by my account , i think that my laff-o-meter only registered a few grins , one giggle , and maybe one chortle . 
i suppose that you could justify your time as homage to the venerable hollywood star , lloyd bridges , who just recently passed away and whose last performance was in this film . 
 " mafia ! " 
chronicles vincenzo cortino's ( lloyd bridges ) life . 
separated from his family when he was young , he escapes to america and tries to live an honest life . 
but as fate would have it , vincenzo grows up to be a powerful and klutzy crime lord . 
following in his footsteps are his two sons , joey ( billy burke ) and anthony ( jay mohr ) . 
like all siblings in powerful crime families , they squabble over power , the future of the family , fortune , and women . 
 " mafia ! " is co-written by jim abrahams , who also contributed to some gut-busting funny spoofs such as " airplane " and " the naked gun . " 
but these previous movies were funny because the jokes seemed more universally understood and there was more of a manic silliness at work . 
as i write this , i also wonder how many people have actually seen the movies on which this spoof is based . 
crime movies in general contain a lot of profanity and violence . 
it's a tough genre to parody . 
i was kind of hoping that they could somehow spoof the profanity used in all of those crime movies , maybe by having all of the tough crime lords say " please " as they decide which sector to take over , but this opportunity was never explored . 
there were one or two moments that made me smile such as the scene where vincenzo is dancing with his newly wed daughter-in-law . 
a gunman shoots him several times . 
the impact of the bullets cause him to make these wild contortions that force the wedding band to change music styles to keep up with him , from the samba to disco to the macarena . 
i think that i just gave away the best part of the film . 
oh well , that just means that you can go to sleep a little earlier . 
die hard 2 is an altogether unfortunate fiasco , inferior to the original in every respect . 
place the blame squarely on the shoulders of steven de souza and doug richardson , who wrote the film's pathetic screenplay . 
every line of dialogue reeks of either smarmy sap or forced humor . 
the plot is altogether implausible ; the convoluted story line involves a band of terrorists who take over dulles airport and shut down the control tower , leaving a dozen planes stranded in the air waiting to land . 
the film has zero credibility , and all of the characters come off as cliched , cardboard cut-outs . 
so much for the script . 
how about the action ? 
well , let's put it this way : director renny harlin could learn a few things from john mctiernan , who directed the original , as well as the hunt for red october and predator--all standouts for their hair-raising suspense . 
by contrast , harlin doesn't have a clue when it comes to choreographing action , and consequently , die hard 2 never picks up steam . 
die harder is impossible to take seriously even for a minute . 
in fact , the movie often seems deliberately campy , and it almost reaches the threshold of being so bad it's good . 
you do laugh , but you laugh at the film , not with it . 
die hard 2 should have never been cleared for takeoff . 
i admit it . 
i thought arnold schwarzenegger had a knack for comedy when he made twins and true lies . 
watching him in jingle all the way , i wondered why anyone ever thought he could carry such a lame movie targeted at susceptible kids . 
it was one thing to scare the crap out of kids with the pg-13 kindergarten cop , but parents who let small children see this movie will have to explain themes of violence , alcohol consumption , burglary , racism and child molestation . 
and you know they'll burst out in tears when arnold punches one of santa's elves . 
he later decks a reindeer . 
hey , man , why don't you just kick the easter bunny in the nuts while you're at it ? 
jingle all the way is formula crap that follows the if someone falls on his ass , it must be funny school of thought . 
arnold , sinbad and phil hartman crash to the ground more times in this movie than a special olympics hockey team , and the movie dredges up more cliche and less believability with each successive scene . 
what can you expect from a movie whose entire premise is that two parents can't find a rare toy on christmas eve , and will do anything to get one ? 
arnold is , of course , one of the parents , a crack salesman who is never there for his son . 
he races from the office to his son's karate game , only to find out he missed it . 
and his kid distrusts him because he's never around . 
 ( gee , we haven't seen that in a movie before . ) 
arnold the absentee father becomes convinced that the only way to buy back his son's affection is to get him a turboman doll , which his wife ( rita wilson , who will never be the breadwinner of the hanks household choosing roles like this ) told him to get weeks ago . 
so arnold sets out to find a turboman , which turns out to be more rare than the tickle me elmo was when jingle all the way came out . 
let me back up for a minute here -- arnold's kid is totally obsessed with this turboman character , which is unhealthy beyond belief . 
watches the show , eats the cereal , sleeps on the freakin' turboman sheets . 
i'd try to discourage any further obsession myself , lest any kid seeing this movie think it's a wonderful thing to con your dad into racing out to buy you any toy you want . 
but nooooo , the climax of jingle all the way has arnold dressed up as turboman in a parade , exonerating himself of all wrongdoing in the eyes of wife and son , who don't recognize him until the last minute . 
this is a sad movie all the way through , but it only gets worse after the opening scenes of arnold and mailman sinbad stampeding through a store , racing off to the mall and hooking up with a santa ( jim belushi ) who runs a bootleg toy factory . 
most painful to watch is a scene at a radio station , where sinbad holds off the cops with a letter bomb after beating up the deejay ( an embarrassed martin mull ) who said he was giving away a turboman doll . 
capitalism has produced some pretty evil things ( chia pets ) , but this ode to excess and violent consumerism is one of the most shameful . 
never mind the subplot with perfect neighbor phil hartman trying to seduce wilson while arnold is off shopping ( " your cookies are incredible " ) , it's the main plot of the movie that sends the message that it's okay to do whatever it takes to get your hands on what you want . 
maybe that's what christmas is like at the schwarzenegger house , but not at mine . 
when the haunting arrived in theaters , all i kept hearing about was the overdone special effects and the fact that very often the unseen bumps in the night in a horror film are far scarier than those that you can put a face to courtesy of special effects . 
while i agree that this remake of the haunting goes a bit overboard in the visual effects department , i don't think that they are completely to blame for this movie's failure . 
it appears that some people have failed to take into account that the original haunting had the " unseen " terrors , and it was about as scary as a dust bunny . 
so special effects or not , if the story isn't the least bit scary , you aren't going to end up with a very frightening movie . 
the thing that interested me most about this movie was the caretaker of this building played by bruce dern . 
dern is always great , and even though he may have had only about 3 minutes of screen time he was still the most interesting element of the movie . 
as i sat through the seemingly endless , albeit fairly impressive , special effects , i kept wishing that this movie was about dern's caretaker and not the one dimensional characters that populated the cast . 
never a good sign when a bit player is the best part of the movie . 
liam neeson plays a scientist who is conducting experiments on fear . 
he decides the best way to get results is to trick a group of fairly unstable individuals to spend a few days in a haunted mansion . 
he tricks them into participating by letting on that he is conducting an experiment on insomnia . 
and he also fails to mention that the mansion has a reputation for strange goings-on . 
catherine zeta-jones , lili taylor and owen wilson play his subjects . 
like the original , taylor's character is the star of the movie . 
but since she doesn't quite have the marquee power of liam neeson and ms . zeta-jones , their parts did seem to be a big larger than in the original . 
and let's face it , probably half the people who see this movie will do so because of zeta-jones . 
i'll admit that i would have never seen this thing if she weren't in it . 
but the real stars here is the special effects combined with the fairly overdone sets . 
they take over the movie as the supernatural elements of the house start to interact with our hapless insomnia patients . 
there really isn't much of a story here . 
just endless setups so director jan de bont can showcase all the nifty special effects that he got to play with . 
and the special effects are great . 
in many cases they are as good as you are likely to see anywhere . 
in other cases they are overdone and obviously thrown in just for the sake of hitting the " cool shots " quota . 
at no point in the movie do any of these things ever come close to being scary -- funny , maybe . 
but not scary . 
then we have the set . 
when i first saw the house , i was very impressed with the very cool gothic look about it . 
but it only took a short tour by the characters around the place to see that the set designers obviously had as much money to burn as the visual effects people did , and decided to take the idiotically overdone route . 
this included a flooded hallway with books as stepping stones and a mirrored circular room that revolves . 
what part did these rooms play in the story ? 
absolutely none . 
they were just there to take our minds off the fact that there was neither a descent story nor a single scare in the entire movie . 
then we have the actors . 
lili taylor has never been one of my favorites . 
and when the fact that her character is mousy and pathetic is factored in , she comes in around the average or slightly below mark . 
i have no idea why liam neeson took this role . 
he basically reminded me of the ringmaster at an out of control circus . 
his character was in charge of this farce but it quickly got away from him . 
i have no doubt that liam will want to lock all prints of this movie in a very secure vault along with all copies of darkman . 
zeta-jones was cast because she is too hot for words . 
the fact that her character is bi-sexual is just icing on the cake . 
all catherine has to do in this movie is look good . 
fortunately that is something she does very well . 
while she does have a fairly good size part , it is obvious that her only purpose in the movie was as eye-candy . 
it's too bad someone of her talents wasted them here . 
any random supermodel pulled out of a fashion show could have easily filled her role . 
the haunting is the antithesis of another of 1999's horror movies , the blair witch project . 
the haunting had a seemingly limitless effects budget , while blair witch relies on piles of rocks for its scares . 
both prove quite nicely that special effects are irrelevant to a horror film . 
if the story sucks , it's all downhill from there . 
my advice ? 
if you are looking for special effects , go rent star wars . 
if it's scares you want , rent halloween . 
either way , it's probably in your best interests to skip the haunting . 
plot : set in the future , a courier has uploaded some data into a " hard drive " that resides in his head , and must now escape the bad guys who are after that very important information . 
since he overloaded his " hard drive " , he's also racing against the clock before the information seeps into his brain and kills him . 
critique : incoherent , boring , one-act drivel with no suspense , horribly unbelievable futuristic environment , bad dialogue , career-defining bad acting by keanu reeves and a hilarious ending . 
it's too bad because the premise of the film was interesting , but unfortunately for my friends and i , this movie turned out to be just as bad as everyone had warned us . 
it's one of those films that makes you start laughing half-way through , when you realize that most of the actors in it suck , the location shots are filmed in dark " junkyard " type areas which they would like to have us believe to be futuristic ( whatever . . . ) , and all the sets look like . . . . well , 
sets . 
there is also absolutely no arc to this story . 
it basically starts off with keanu uploading info into his brain , and then a bunch of folks chasing him from place to place until a laughable ending puts a stop to the former uneventful proceedings . 
gibson should stick to writing novels and " x-files " episodes , since his segue into the paranormal tv series was much more entertaining than any of this garbage . 
some other hilarities of this film include dolph lundgren as some futuristic jesus character whose supposed to kick ass , henry rollins as a pumped-up cyber-doctor or something , and ice-t as some kind of a hobo dude with paint all over his face ( don't ask ) . 
the ending is the funniest with some robot dolphin and a stupid ghost-lady from inside the computer doing some stuff that no one really cares about by that point . 
i'm ashamed to say this film was shot in my hometown of montreal , canada , but sadly enough for us all , it was . 
some of the cyber-travelling special effects were okay ( hence , the 2/10 ) , but overall , it's one of those bad movies that's just funny to watch and cringe at . 
thankfully for keanu , he redeemed his sci-fi career with 1999's the matrix ( 7 . 5/10 ) . 
it's too bad that he has yet to redeem his lack of acting talent . 
little known facts about this film and its stars : as of 1999 , director robert longo never directed another full-feature film . 
hmmm . . . now 
isn't that odd ? 
 : ) writer william gibson immigrated from the us to canada in 1968 , after being rejected for the draft . 
he lived in toronto at first , but since 1972 , has made vancouver his home . 
his 1984 novel " neuromancer " and its sequels 1986's " count zero " and 1988's " mona lisa overdrive " are generally considered to be the definitive works of the " cyberpunk " science-fiction sub-genre . 
this film garnered keanu reeves a nomination in the " worst actor " category in the 1996 razzie awards . 
i am a steven seagal fan . 
i only say this now because " mufti splenetik " isn't my real name and because i probably need to explain why i went into this film expecting great things . 
any proud seagal fan worth his beans will tell you that the seagal formula is something you can depend on . 
seagal films can always be counted on for minimal dialogue , heaps of expendable baddies with extemely crunchable bones ( which we'll always hear when seagal does his limb-twisting thing ) , rarely a female co-lead in sight ( unless it's a real-life model-wife who hasn't worked since weird science ) and , usually the worst possible titles you can imagine . 
not to mention very straightforward plots , generally all-round bad dialogue and mr implacable leather-face himself in that same black outfit he's been in since nico doing his " my hands are sharp , nimble knives " thing , seagal the stoic , sir petrified ponytail , duke of dull . 
in the glimmer man , seagal breaks out of this formula : he gets a * sidekick * , attempts to banter , and puts on a new vest . 
he's also put on quite a lot of weight . 
small potatoes , you may say , a man should be able to accessorize and banter if he wants to , but damnit , if it ain't broke , why fix it ? 
 ( more on this disappointed person's dashed expectations later ) . 
as jack cole , seagal is a homicide detective with a questionable past . 
while he and his partner ( played by keenen ivory wayans ) are investigating a series of ritual killings , cole himself becomes a suspect , especially when a background check run by campbell reveals practically nothing on cole . 
it turns out that cole is a former trained government assassin ( you just can't trust these homicide detectives ) , someone whom victims used to catch just a glimpse of in the jungle before he pounced on them , and hence , well , you know , that " glimmer man " thing . 
an increasingly fishy homicide investigation in the present soon leads to the gradual uncovering of a larger , more threatening conspiracy that involves a crooked businessman ( bob gunton ) , cole's former cia boss ( brian cox ) and deals involving chemical weapons . 
the glimmer man plot is pretty standard stuff , drawing ( as with his other films ) elements from the hotter films of the year ( eg , se7en ) . 
it's the other changes that disappoint . 
for example , although there's a fair amount of violence in this movie , there's also the disastrous pairing of seagal with keenen ivory wayans , probably the best known of the wayans tribe ( how many are there , exactly ? ) from television's " in living colour . " 
wayans plays whiney straightman to seagal's bead-adorned and brocade-draped cole , keeping up his " are you crazy " part of the dialogue with wasted zest . 
as campbell , wayans confines himself to bemoaning his new partner's eccentric habits , but the chemistry between the two is minimal , and seagal's wooden comebacks make for painful watching . 
a cook in under seige 2 , seagal is now a buddhist who speaks chinese and wears prayer beads and intricate silk jackets over his normal black ensemble . 
he chants , refuses to fight unless truly provoked and introduces campbell to powdered deer penis to cure his allergies . 
again , a benign ( if trite ) plot device except for the fact that these new character traits require seagal to speak more than usual . 
heck , he has to deliver punchlines and carry a steady conversation with someone other than himself for a large part of the film . 
is that a lot to ask of the seague ? 
too much . 
seagal's best characteristic used to be that he knew his purpose in this already complicated world of movies : to crunchily snap off bad guy appendages , and to do it silently , and alone . 
not for seagal , the snappy one-liners of arnold and stallone , nor the attempts to show that he can act , much less think . 
no kindergarten cop , no oscar , just simple , unadulterated deathblows . 
that's really how it must have started : like-minded fans who knew what they wanted streamed in to watch the seague do his thing , knowing that never in the seagal universe would they ever have to see him do anything else . 
we trusted him . 
we got to know him . 
now , betrayal . 
i don't know if i can watch another seagal movie without that little niggling doubt that he's going to try to be funny again . 
i'll try , but it won't be easy . 
if you haven't watched the glimmer man yet , you might want to wait for the video to come out . 
it's easier to just fast forward the dialogue parts and linger on the action sequences . 
after all , if we can't depend on our fantasies , what can we depend on ? 
the flying inkpot rating system : * wait for the tv2 broadcast . 
 * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha ! 
 * * * pretty good , bring a friend . 
 * * * * amazing , potent stuff . 
 * * * * * perfection . 
see it twice . 
mufti spelenetik is still a steven seagal fan . 
everybody makes mistakes once in awhile . 
 " the 13th warrior " comes at the end of as summer where we've already experienced man eating sharks ( " deep blue sea " ) , man eating crocodiles ( " lake placid " ) and even a man hunting witch ( " the blair witch project " ) . 
now , " the 13th warrior " presents a tribe of flesh eating men who believe that they are bears . 
the story , if that's what you want to call it , follows ahmed ibn fahdlan ( antonio banderas ) an arabian poet who falls in love with his king's wife and is banished from his home land . 
he then travels to the land of the vikings and becomes an ambassador to them . 
eventually the vikings are called upon to protect the people of the village who are being hunted by the flesh eating men . 
thirteen warriors are chosen to go on the mission , and as you guessed it , ahmed is chosen as the thirteenth . 
he's not a warrior , and at first not well accepted by the vikings , but as the movie advances he'll have to prove himself both on and off the battlefield . 
that's basically the entire plot . 
there is also a romantic subplot that has been so badly mishandled and , one assumes , drastically cut that you begin to wonder why the filmmakers didn't just edit out all of the scenes attaining to that part of the story . 
instead they chose to leave just enough of those scenes in to annoy the viewer . 
the film is basically non- stop action and when it pauses and tries to develop a story it becomes a laughing stock . 
the battle scenes , although well choreographed , are not involving and not the least bit exciting . 
we don't get to know any of the characters and so we don't care who lives and who dies . 
the film , which wants to be beowolf , comes across more as a failed action-adventure story aspiring to epic proportions but not achieving it on any levels . 
it was directed by john mctiernan who's , " the thomas crown affair " is also playing in theaters currently . 
and it's not that mctiernan worked simultaneously on both films but that , " the 13th warrior " was placed on the shelf for so long with the studio just waiting for a time to dump it on audiences . 
it belongs back on the shelf . 
when i watch a movie like mike nichols' what planet are you from ? 
i can't help but feel like everyone is looking at me . 
it's as if all the audience is gazing at the back of my head in the darkness , eyes shooting daggers , quietly blaming me for the fact that they paid hard-earned money to spend their time watching this . . . 
this . . . 
thing . 
i shift uncomfortably in my seat . 
i'm reminded of how i feel when i see a pair of second- or third-rate celebrities engaging in a teleprompted " funny " conversation to introduce the next blockbuster award . 
it's not my fault , i know it's not my fault , but dammit , someone's gotta be embarrassed , because it doesn't look like anyone on the screen is ready to take the blame . 
i'm about to give you a list of names of people who are gonna make a movie together : garry shandling , annette bening , john goodman , greg kinnear , mike nichols . 
do any of these names make you instantly shudder ? 
the answer i would have come up with before today is no , this is quite a list of talented individuals we've got here . 
granted , john goodman was in the flintstones , and greg kinnear has turned in some less-than-lackluster leading man performances in certified failures like a smile like yours , but even so , they've got proven power as excellent supporting players . 
garry shandling has two television classics under his belt , his ingenious little it's garry shandling's show and the larry sanders show . 
and for god's sake , mike nichols directed the graduate , and annette bening is just walking away from american beauty . 
so explain this . . . 
this . . . 
thing . 
what planet are you from ? 
purports to be a comedy exploring the relationship between men and women satirizing the whole pop-psychology mars/venus phenomenon . 
but what this movie winds up being is a collection of unfunny cringe-inducing moments coupled with uninsightful cringe-inducing moments ; the end result is , unsurprisingly , an unfunny , uninsightful , cringe-inducing , thoroughly icky embarrassment . 
garry shandling plays an alien from a planet populated by technologically advanced but emotionally vacant males ( they reproduce through cloning , of course ) . 
his leaders put a select group of males through a series of tests designed to determine which one is most fit to fly off to earth , find a female of the species , and impregnate her . 
they're taught how to pretend that they're listening by nodding and saying " uh-huh , " and how to compliment shoes . 
imagine my delighted surprise when , oh heavens , all their carefully practiced tactics turn out to fail miserably , producing comedic results ! 
the lucky winner is fitted with a penis ( since theirs , after generations of disuse have long since shrunk out of existence . . . 
i will restrain myself from mentioning the implausibility of such a scenario since the population has stopped evolving due to the fact that they're all just clones . . . 
whoops , too late . ) 
the penis , when aroused , tends to make a humming noise . 
the writers , when frequently strapped for ideas , tend to turn to this as a source of " comedy . " 
it isn't funny the first time . 
it isn't funny the eighth time . 
it isn't funny the eighteenth time . 
if anything , it made me feel vaguely self-conscious . 
garry meets up with a coworker at a bank played by greg kinnear , who turns out to be a generic , unlikable scumbag . 
he's meant to fill the part of unfortunate role model for shandling's alien character , but he's so flatly drawn that even the writers quickly give up and toss him aside . 
kinnear's scumbagginess is demonstrated by the fact that he claims other peoples' work as his own to worm his way into a vice presidents' position and goes to aa meetings to pick up chicks . 
wow . 
what a magnificent bastard . 
nearly every man in the movie , in fact , is played as the same sort of sex-driven slimeball . 
when kinnear's wife walks into the office , there isn't a single guy who doesn't trip , bump into a wall , or otherwise pratfall as if they'd never seen a woman before . 
the few guys that aren't particularly slimeballs , such as john goodman's detective character , are simply uncommunicative workaholics . 
shandling meets up with annette bening , who will inevitably prove to be the love he never knew existed , at one of kinnear's aa meetings . 
shandling's mission is to have a baby , and when he reveals his desires to her , bening instantly falls for him , and the next day . . . 
they get married . 
yup . 
the next day . 
cuz ya see , it turns out she wants a baby too ! 
bening's character perhaps was the most difficult to watch , especially after seeing her come apart at the seams so effectively in american beauty . . . 
if her character here is supposed to be representing the female of the species as a whole , then woe , i say , to the species . 
she's unfathomably insecure , and succumbs so easily to all of shandling's lines and lies that it borders on tragic . 
there's a point where , after thinking she may not be able to bear children , she learns that she is indeed pregnant . 
when garry comes home after nearly cheating on her , she strolls into the kitchen and sings " high hopes " ( you know , the uplifting ant and the rubber tree plant song ) to deliver the news , and then says to him , " now you can't leave me . " 
we're supposed to empathize with shandling's discovery of the feeling of " guilt , " but instead i wanted to weep for bening that she was placing her entire life and soul firmly in the lap of a great big nothing . 
and eventually , shandling falls in love with her . . . 
for real , i suppose , though i'm not sure exactly what prompted it . 
what's the message i derive from all this ? 
men are liars , inherently empty creatures , but if you hang around long enough . . . 
well , maybe something will click . 
ha ha . . . 
ha ? 
i'm thankful such broad cynicism isn't frequently allowed to run so rampant . 
let's all join hands and pray that the planet these folks are from is not this one . 
there's also a subplot involving john goodman as an airline incident investigator that wades in the bog of stupidity . 
goodman , through a series of astoundingly implausible realizations , puts together the fact that shandling is a being from another world with a magic , vibrating penis . 
it has all the makings for a subplot of having shandling be discovered , that , thankfully , never comes to the inevitable hackneyed fruition . 
instead , it just dangles limply on the branch for a while , withers , and falls away . 
further proof that goodman should just stick to doing coen brothers movies . 
but let's not dwell on this any longer , i've already wasted plenty of your time and my own . 
let's move on , forget about what we've seen here , and get on with our lives . 
and to help us out , let's end things on a happy note . . . 
congratuations go out to annette bening , winner of this week's " title ! " 
award , for delivering the awkward line of dialog containing the movie's name . 
it seems like i'm reviewing cheeseball horror movies on a monthly basis now . 
scream revitalized a genre the studios are now intent on burying into the ground again-the serial killers in these new slasher movies have nothing on sony and miramax in the " relentless " department . 
i still know what you did last summer is a terrible film in many respects , but in the wake of the stupefyingly bad urban legend , it's citizen hook . 
jennifer love-hewitt reprises her role as buxom teenager julie james-who apparently escaped certain doom at the end of the last movie by . . . waking 
up . 
she lives in fear of ben willis , the vengeful fisherman-victim of a hit and run by julie and her pals . 
paranoid and beat , she accepts a free trip to the bahamas from her friend karla ( norwood ) , winner of the local radio station's 4th of july getaway giveaway . 
bikini-ready julie invites boyfriend ray ( prinze , jr . ) , who-and here's the movie's biggest mystery-turns her down , but changes his mind and plans to surprise her before take-off . 
until he gets a roadside visit from captain hell-liner himself , that is . 
unaware of this and feeling shunned , julie goes on vacation , anyway , with karla , karla's boyfriend ( pfeiffer ) , and will ( matthew settle ) , a real boy-next-door type who's sweet on julie . 
to make a long story short-i can't believe it took a paragraph to describe the set-up for this gratuitous sequel-the trip is a disaster . 
not only is it storm season , not only is the desk clerk ( the frighteners' jeffrey combs ) a jerk , not only are the few island residents and our heroic vacationers getting picked off by the resourceful willis one-by-one , but the karaoke machine isn't working properly ! 
 ( you think killing is hard ? 
try reprogramming a laserdisc so that gloria gaynor's " i will survive " now contains the lyric " i still know what you did last summer ! " ) 
all is not lost-ray is on his way to save the day , and a helpful witch doctor is saying little prayers for julie and co . 
this picture is really about breasts : two of them . 
julie , like a good horror heroine , never does up her shirt to the collar , always wears white in the rain , and keeps sexy underwear on in case of a sudden desire to tan . 
based on the hormonal charge i got out of the movie , i can't imagine what it was doing to the ten year old boy who sat next to me-he gets jennifer love-hewitt , and my generation got heather langenkamp ! 
lucky bastard . 
i didn't like i know what you did last summer and i can't say i liked this continuation any more or less . 
the pacing in both films is languid-how is it that so much time passes with neither murder nor character development ? 
i still know what you did last summer has a better sense of humour than the first one , though , and at least it explains away willis's random selection of victims . 
 ( i don't think the hotel maid or the stoner dude had the slightest idea what julie did last summer . ) 
director cannon ( judge dredd ) is a competent filmmaker but not a particularly imaginative one-if there is a part three ( what on earth would they call it ? ) , and the fun denouement suggests there will be , here's my suggestion : hire a filmmaker with flair , someone who can really energize this stillborn series-someone who won't rely on so many shock notes . 
and let that person run wild with the camera . 
 ( aside : if blandy [sic] must appear in the next one , try to keep the number of times she says " baby " to a minimum . 
thanks in advance . ) 
we're back in blade runner territory with this one , conceptual artist robert longo's vision of a william gibson-inspired future where information is the commodity to kill for . 
front and center is johnny ( keanu reeves ) , a " cyber-courier " who smuggles data via a " wet-wired " implant . 
he's ready to quit the biz and get a portion of his long-term memory restored , but , first , he has to finish one last , dangerous job . . 
the pressing problem in johnny mnemonic is that keanu reeves seems to have forgotten how to play an action hero since his stint on speed . 
he's walking wood in a forest of stiffs that includes henry rollins , ice-t , and dina meyer . 
 ( dolph lundgren's street preacher is in an acting category all its own . 
 : - ) without a believable performance between them , all we can do is sit back and watch the atmosphere , which is pretty good in places . 
the vr sequences are way cool , but the physical fx--such as miniatures and mattes--leave a lot to be desired . 
watch out for those bad blue-screens ! 
we wouldn't mind a minute of johnny mnemonic if the action played better . 
too bad the debut director isn't very strong in this de- partment . 
his big finale is a sloppy , silly mess that runs twenty minutes too long , which is way past the time that most of our " wet- wired " processors have already shut down . 
bottom line : yatf ( yet another tortured future ) . 
skip it . 
ok , i admit it--i find camp amusement with the spice girls . 
yes , the same spice girls of the gimmicky individual " identities , " they of the annoyingly infectious bubblegum pop hooks and cheesy unifying mantra of " girl power . " 
but not even their guilty pleasure appeal isn't enough to carry their big screen debut , a junky mess which would be more aptly named shite world than spice world . 
the film begins amusingly enough , with a cheeky 007-esque title sequence in which the british quintet-- " scary " ( melanie brown ) , " baby " ( emma bunton ) , " sporty " ( melanie chisolm ) , " ginger " ( geri halliwell ) , and " posh " ( victoria adams ) --are introduced one by one ( to , much to my surprise , excited and only slightly mocking cheers from the press audience ) as they croon the silky ballad " too much " ( a tune that would sound right at home in an actual james bond film ) . 
a few minutes and an elton john cameo later comes an introductory tour of the numerous plotlines that run through the film : ( 1 ) the spicy ones go on a european publicity tour leading up to their first live concert at london's royal albert hall ; ( 2 ) a film producer ( george wendt ) and a screenwriter ( mark mckinney ) pitch various film ideas to the girls' manager , clifford ( richard e . grant ) ; ( 3 ) a documentary film crew follows the girls ; ( 4 ) a pregnant " mate " ( naoki mori ) of the group rapidly approaches her due date ; and ( 5 ) a tabloid publisher ( barry humphries ) attempts to destroy the group with the help of a sneaky shutterbug ( richard o'brien ) . 
capped off by a live rendition of the girls' bouncy hit " say you'll be there , " a wealth of laughs and merriment is sure to follow , right ? 
wrong . it's all downhill from there as spice world collapses into a series of misfired comedy sketches . 
i must give the girls credit for their refreshing willingness to make fun of themselves , but writer kim fuller and director bob spiers can barely come up with a funny joke between them , much less a organized framework for all the " wacky " goings-on . 
spice world jumps from vignette to vignette , subplot to subplot with no direction and little sense , at one minute having the girls meet with aliens ( no joke ) and at another having them stage a daring rescue of two young fans who fall into the water during a boat ride . 
while a decent joke slips through the cracks here and there--during a " dance bootcamp " scene , the girls sing the lyric " we know how we got this far/strength and courage and a wonderbra " --much of the material is not even funny on the chuckle level . 
some gags are just plain pointless , such as roger moore's recurring role as the mysterious chief , who dispenses cryptic , metaphor-heavy advice to clifford . 
the only reason why i can think anyone would find that funny is the fact that moore once played james bond . 
ha ha . 
as weak as the script is , i think there's one insurmountable problem with even attempting to make a spice girls movie , and that is the girls themselves . 
the point is not that they can't act ( and , for the record , they really _can't_ ) but that their individual personas , which works as a gimmick over the span of a four-minute music video , are too thin to survive outside of the truncated , video bite mtv world . 
posh ( who garnered the most enthusiastic cheers during the introductions ) comes off best by default because her persona ( rich bitch ) most easily translates into character in a film . 
baby's persona ( young innocent ) , to a lesser extent , also works , but the remaining girls' identities are a little harder to flesh out . 
there really isn't much to do with sporty besides having her exercise every so often ( which is _exactly_ what fuller and spiers do ) , and , after all , what exactly entails being " ginger " or " scary " ? 
apparently , just their wardrobes . 
spice world manages to pick up some steam in the late going following a flashback performance of the spices' signature hit , " wannabe . " 
the song is as grating as ever , but the energy of the number gives the proceedings a much-needed shot in the arm , setting the stage for a wave of self-referential humor stemmed from the screenwriters' film ideas ( the film almost mirrors robert altman's the player in the way the film snails into itself ) . 
this section of the film , involving all manner of derring-do involving a speeding bus , is perhaps its most effective , but it also points up how all the other storylines ( the publisher , the documentary crew ) lack a satisfactory payoff . 
spice world is harmless entertainment suitable for the entire family , and it will please the spice faithful . 
but this sloppy enterprise surely won't win them any new fans , which is what the group sorely needs to bolster its rapidly waning girl power in the states . 
once the hype disappears , spice world will likely serve as the the spices' final hurrah in america . 
sylvester stallone has made some crap films in his lifetime , but this has got to be one of the worst . 
a totally dull story that thinks it can use various explosions to make it interesting , " the specialist " is about as exciting as an episode of " dragnet , " and about as well acted . 
even some attempts at film noir mood are destroyed by a sappy script , stupid and unlikable characters , and just plain nothingness . 
who knew a big explosion could be so boring and anti-climactic ? 
unless you saw " blown away " . . . 
 " the specliast " of the title is none other than action star sylvester stallone ( in comeback #19 , i think ) , who plays a quiet , hermit-like bomber who was once a bomb expert with the army or something , but who suffered a change of heart when he and his assistant ( james woods , who shows us exactly what over-the-top is , other than another bad sly film ) accidentally killed some innocent people during a job . 
his credo is killing bad people , not innocents . 
and that's why he makes big bombs . 
so anyway , into his life steps the seductive sharon stone , who is basically the girlfriend/moll of the stupid son ( eric roberts ) of a cuban/miami kingpin ( rod steiger , in an indecipherable accent , which is sometimes cuban , sometimes brando , sometimes scottish , etc ) . 
turns out sharon is actually using her boyfriend so she can kill him , since he killed her parents when she was young . 
so she calls sly , leaves messages with him , sends him e-mail , etc , about planting a bomb to kill roberts , which sly listens to obsessively , and while he works out naked . 
yea . 
also into his life , though again , comes woods , who has been tipped off by stone to catch sly . 
using the cops , he tries to set up traps , none which really work , so when sly calls him , he goes ballisitic on his ass over the phone , getting so worked up by saying his must-be-improvised speeches that he seems to pop the vein in his head wide open . 
these are the most exciting scenes in the film , and woods becomes the only ounce of entertainment in the film . 
the film tries to offer us a moody film noir , except with explosions , but comes up completely snake-eyes . 
it's just a pretend film noir , making it a big waste of time . 
and for action buffs , the action scenes are pretty lame , with some really unrealistic-looking special effects ( a penthouse being blown off of a hotel looks like a piece of cardboard falling into a tub ) . 
then there's the much-discussed sex scene between sly and stone , which are about as mispaired a couple as rachel and ross on " friends . " 
their sex scene is more nauseating then sexy , because it shows us more of sly than stone . 
now let's guess who we'd rather see naked , okay ? 
stone's small but perky breasts , which we've seen more times than harvey keitel's dick , or stallone's veiny ass , which isn't usually shown for a very good reason ? 
i know i can't really judge it as a flaw of the film , but come on . 
the worst flaw of the film is this : it's boring . 
i mean , i was on caffeine when watching it , but my friend fell asleep only to be woken up by james woods ranting . 
but a good movie does not james woods going nuts make . 
if you're in for some fun action , rent sly's earlier " demolition man , " which sucks too , but in a much more entertaining fashion . 
skip this dull film , unless you want to see woods , or make fun of steiger's accent , or see stone's breasts again . 
`the skulls' is a laughably bad thriller , a teen-orientated doppelganger of `the firm' so blazingly ridiculous that it caused me to drift into a hypnotic stupor . 
certain moments are so preposterous that i nearly herniated myself in an attempt to stifle laughter . 
i chuckled incessantly , all the way home . 
let me share . 
the skulls is a secret society conceived inside the walls of yale ( designed , i'm sure , to mirror the actual skull & bones from the same college ) . 
luke mcnamara ( joshua jackson ) , a townie and local varsity rowing championship victor for the third consecutive year , highlights the latest skull scouting report . 
despite some anxiety and caution from others , luke accepts entry into the organization . 
soon after , he finds himself surrounded by beautiful women , driving a new car and marveling at the $20 , 000 that somehow surfaced in his bank account . 
yeah , dude , pretty good deal eh ? 
but luke soon learns that the membership is somewhat suffocating ; when circumstances become extreme , there is no way he can leave the society - except maybe as a drooling vegetable . 
the premise , although lacking in originality , certainly offers its share of potential intrigue and suspense . 
unfortunately , `the skulls' is neither intriguing , nor suspenseful , nor anything else you would associate with fresh or exciting . 
it's just another abysmal teen prototype that has the soundtrack , the stars . . . . 
but not the script . 
`the skulls' is so bad it attains a certain level of entertainment value , with the screenplay , by jon pogue , immediately becoming the basis for a slew of unintentional howlers . 
first off , upon their initiation into the skulls , each new member has to have a skull branded onto their arm . 
afterward they are supplied with a wristwatch that conveniently covers up the scar . 
will they never take this watch off ? 
and what if they forget it by their bedside ? 
perhaps their ? secret' society was being a little too conspicuous when they decided to brand new members like cattle on an area of the body that is easily exposed . 
on top of this , they are each given a rulebook and a key to headquarters . 
gee , why not member t-shirts ? 
but my favorite bit is this : the voting committee for the skulls does not bother with individual ? agree' or ? disagree' notions when making collective decisions . 
they are given official skull paddles . 
when flipped to one side , they indicate the member agrees with the proposal . 
facing the opposite way means a disagreement . 
wouldn't they merely express themselves verbally ? 
hell no . 
they have to retrieve the paddles for a proper vote , and maybe afterward they can play ping-pong . 
i'm still chuckling about these ludicrous details , but the humiliating dialogue is enough to send one into arrest . 
the cast , meanwhile , combines a pinch of veteran talent with a dash of the `dawson's creek' crowd , and fuses the two together , ensuring that the embarrassment will be a mutually shared union throughout . 
but not entirely . 
accomplished actors like craig t . nelson ( as skulls chairman judge litten mandrake ) and william peterson ( as fellow board member senator levritt ) are dealt pathetic villain caricatures , and look suitably embarrassed handling them . 
and then there's christopher mcdonald , who has the capacity to be a fun , exciting actor . 
mcdonald's charisma is totally diminished here as he sleepwalks through another perfunctory bad guy role ( yes , pogue makes it a hat-trick ) . 
i pray it was a `snatch-the-paycheck-and-run' exercise for all these actors . 
the young troupe of performers involved fair moderately better . 
let's cut the talented canadian lad joshua jackson some slack for maintaining believability within the confines of his character . 
paul walker , the strapping quarterback from `varsity blues' , is bland but passable as caleb mandrake - the judge's son . 
walker preserves a straight face , even when dealt the silliest dialogue in the movie ( `dad , i just killed a guy in the ritual room ! ' ) . 
some actual spark is generated by leslie bibb , who plays luke's longtime chum chloe , and manages to successfully pull off some convincing dramatics . 
it really boils down to the actors attempting to puncture the surrounding plastic bubble of absurdity that cages them from minute one . 
or maybe not minute one , thanks to a decent set-up from director rob cohen , who films early sequences with a sense of atmosphere and style . 
it makes you wonder why he didn't flee indefinitely from the project , because while enjoyable cheese like `dragonheart' and the moderate stallone thriller `daylight' aren't superior cinema , they belong on the afi top 100 list when compared to this degrading trash . 
aside from unintentionally humoring the audience , `the skulls' gets little accomplished . 
the thrills and action are lazy and mechanical . 
the story is stuffed with ridiculous , formulaic plotting that sheepishly overlooks the cool potential of a secret underground society flick . 
instead of gaining knowledge about the skulls as an organization , we are thrust into a lame video surveillance conspiracy that has developed barnacles from excessive usage . 
we've seen it all before , and better . 
`the skulls' is a feeble little circus of stupidity , so miscalculated that -- while it would serve as a clever pun -- a term like ? boneheaded' seems just too generous . 
it's difficult to expect much from a director whose greatest accomplishments to date are a handful of " award-winning " tv commercials , as is the case with bubble boy director blair hayes . 
that said , hayes's feature film debut lives up to expectations , coming off mainly as equal parts offensive and moronic . 
but occasionally , bubble boy transcends its substandard roots with glimmers of humor and scathing social commentary . 
those moments of intelligence are delivered mostly by the film's two stars , jake gyllenhall as the immuno-deficient jimmy and swoosie kurtz as his over-protective , hyper religious , reagan-loving mother . 
gyllenhall's sweet-natured delivery of jimmy's hilariously na ? ve narration serves as the backbone for an otherwise flimsy coming-of-age story : jimmy is a bubble boy , a kid born without immunity who could die if he comes in contact with a single germ -- a plight explored more seriously in the john travolta tv movie boy in the plastic bubble and less so on seinfeld . 
his mom home-schools jimmy , filling his head with wildly twisted conservative propaganda and anti-sexual messages , until he's befriended by chloe ( marley shelton ) , the beautiful girl next door . 
jimmy falls in love with chloe , but is afraid that his love will literally kill him , as evidenced in a scene when she drunkenly tries to enter his bubble for a kiss . 
but when chloe decides to marry her high school boyfriend , jimmy builds a bubble suit and embarks on a hijinks-addled cross-country voyage to stop the wedding by professing his love . 
the offensive bits have little to do with jimmy's rare handicap ( regardless of what the film's protesters would have you believe ) , but instead center on outrageous racial stereotypes , including a screaming chinese strip club owner and a devout east indian hindi . 
but even if you find stereotype humor funny , it's hard to muster more than a giggle for these shallow gags . 
they even manage to bungle some potentially great moments with a group of carnival freaks . 
but a few of the harsh jabs manage to work , especially in the case of kurtz , who very bluntly shows the dark , hypocritical side of the religious right , and a wacky send-up of a cult called " bright 'n shiny , " led by the inimitable fabio . 
unfortunately , a few giggles can't make bubble boy the riotous , off-the-wall comedy it so desperately wants to be . 
honestly , it's a mystery how on earth this movie was ever made , and i'm not just saying that because it's so mediocre . 
how odd for disney to take a gamble on a film with an unknown director starring virtually unknown actors that doesn't seem to appeal to any particular demographic and has the potential to offend so many . 
and now that the studio is suffering through a very public protest against the film by the parents of real-life bubble boy david philip vetter , maybe disney's wondering the same thing . 
hope the opening box office take makes it worthwhile . 
bats is this year's camp flick . 
with the world's worst dialogue , cheesiest premise and stupidest editor , this one should be heaven for those who enjoy films humorous in their inanity . 
as for the rest of us , well . . . 
i'd say skip it , but looking at the box office figures for this one , it seems as though most of america is following that advice anyway . 
follow their lead and you'll spare yourself 90 minutes of your life and 8 bucks to boot . 
i love alfred hitchcock's the birds , almost as much as i love the short story on which it is based . 
it saddens me even more , then , to see that american treasure ripped off so blatantly by wannabe horror/schlock such as bats . 
when mysterious bat attacks occur in a small texas town , the authorities call in a batologist ( dina meyer ) to investigate . 
it turns out that a creepy scientist ( bob gunton ) has genetically enhanced a couple bats that escaped from his lab , making them smarter and more vicious . 
why has he done this , you ask ? 
because , you see , it is apparently a scientist's job to make things " a little better , " even if that means the death of all mankind . 
so the batologist , her wisecracking sidekick and the town sheriff ( lou diamond phillips ) have to kill all the bats and save the world . 
of course , that can't happen before they wallow in some guamo ( bat shit , for the uninitiated ) , get up close and personal with some truly repulsive flying mammals and survive some of the dumbest situations ever seen in a professionally produced motion picture . 
consider , for example , a scene where two people are in a bat cave . 
the bats are all sleeping , but the humans are afraid they might wake up before they can get out . 
what do they do ? 
do they get the hell out of there as fast as they can ? 
nope . 
they stand there for a while , transfixed by the thousands of bats opening their eyes . 
what keeps bats from being scary or creepy is the hyperactive editing in most of the attack scenes . 
we don't even get to see what's going on ; the screen becomes a mush because the cuts are so quick . 
all we know is that bats are attacking . 
how they are attacking and what exactly is happening remains a mystery . 
a little technical proficiency does wonders for horror movies , and bats sure could use some . 
of course , director louis morneau tries to liven things up with some intentional humor , but it is so conventional it doesn't really go anywhere . 
most of the ocmic relief comes courtesy of the batologist's wisecracking sidekick ( leon ) , who takes every opportunity to sputter ingenious lines like " i hate bats ! " 
some of these are so bad that they take on a double quality : they may inspire a smirk by their very nature and a roaring laugh because they are so inept . 
i hate characters who exist for the sole purpose of spouting lame one-liners . 
playing such characters does not help actors' careers . 
still , i suppose that if you're looking for a movie that is " so bad it's good , " you could do worse than bats . 
it does have a tremendous amount of camp value . 
i'm not " recommending " the movie because , quite frankly , it sucks , and i know that this might convince some people to go out and see it . 
more power to them . 
starring shawnee smith ; donovan leitch ; ricky paull goldin ; kevin dillon & billy beck the blob is the remake of the 1960's classic ( a term that i use very loosely to define the original ) about a really mean glob of goop that takes out anything that gets in its way . 
now the original version has the virtue of cheesy special effects which give it a kind of nostalgic campy feel . 
the fact that steve mcqueen was the star of the film doesn't exactly hurt it either . 
fast forward to the late '80's . 
steve mcqueen isn't in the remake ( this might have something to do with the fact that he had been pushing up daisies for years ) . 
nor is there any hollywood heavy hitters in the lead role . 
that is unless you count matt dillon's brother kevin as a hollywood heavy hitter . 
the other thing that works against this new blob is that special effects technology has improved dramatically since the original . 
the only things you need now to have great special effects in a movie are deep pockets . 
it looks as if the produces of the new blob had a couple of holes in their pockets . 
the special effects in this movie are cheesy , like the original's . 
unlike the original , they don't look campy , they just look cheap . 
one bright spot in the movie from a purely sexist point of view is shawnee smith . 
she is very attractive and can actually act , which is more than i can say about some of her costars . 
in terms of plot , a little ball of pink goop falls from the sky . 
seems this goop was an experiment that was being housed up on a satellite . 
anyway , the pink stuff has a taste for humans . 
the more people it absorbs , the bigger it gets . 
and it isn't the friendliest goop on the block either . 
anyway , it attacks this little town and it's up to the attractive local teenage population to stop it . 
not really , but that is how it seems . 
this version attempts to recapture the camp of the original . 
as i've already said , this new version of the blob comes off more as cheap , badly acted , and badly written than campy . 
in the years since this film was made none of the cast have gone on to greatness . 
although , star shawnee smith had a very tiny role in armageddon . 
the reason that we have never heard of any of them again is quite simple -- they all stunk out loud . 
although some of the film's smaller roles are filled with some actors that , while not big stars , are doubtless people that you will recognize from their supporting roles in other movies and tv shows . 
it also appears that the producers of the blob tried to compensate for the lack of a special effects budget by making the scenes in which the blob makes meals of the townsfolk as gory as possible . 
sadly , it doesn't work very well . 
if you want to see a big ball of goop terrorize a town , then i would say that you should skip the remake and rent the original . 
 ( although that isn't so hot either . ) 
this newest version is seriously lacking in any redeeming qualities . 
toward the bottom of the '80s action movie barrel lies action jackson , the only movie in hollywood history to show sharon stone and vanity topless within a span of ten minutes . 
this carl " apollo creed " weathers vehicle features the traditional cop vs . evil establishment crook , and relies on all the '80s trappings , from the token heroin addict who needs a fix to the shouting superior officer . 
somewhere in between come the explosions and boobs , although there is a curious lack of exploding boobs . 
weathers is action jackson , a detroit cop known for all sorts of crazy vigilante techniques . 
speaking of one past criminal apprehension , jackson's superior yells , " you tore his arm off ! " 
jackson replies , " he had a spare . " 
jackson has been busted down to a desk job because of past problems with auto manufacturer dellaplane ( craig t . nelson ) and now has to act as department liaison to a dinner honoring nelson . 
after hearing what jackson thinks of him , stone says , " i take it you're not one of dellaplane's friends . " 
 " not unless they changed the definition , " jackson glowers . 
and of course it turns out stone is mrs . dellaplane . 
faux pas , jackson . . . 
not everything is happy in motown ; people are being killed and dellaplane has evil plans for the awa . 
it's all up to jackson to stop it , and his only lead lies in vanity ( not his own ) . 
wherever she left off with prince in terms of exchanging sexual favors for career advancement she picks up in action jackson . 
she plays the heroin addict and chanteuse in dellaplane's nightclub . 
after singing one particularly sultry number for him , she saunters over and complains , " i expected a standing ovation . " 
he responds , " you're getting one , " and it's damn clever because he's sitting down at the time . 
prince wouldn't even let out an innuendo that lame and he's the king of the horndogs . . . 
or at least the prince . 
it's a testament to the '80s that sharon stone is killed off within the first 30 minutes but vanity survives the whole movie . 
action jackson is another variation on the " unlikely partners " buddy action flick , with jackson lugging junkie vanity around . 
this leads to some of the worst paired acting of the me decade , and with the dialogue they're given , there's not much room for improvement . 
my favorite is when vanity , feeling the effects of drug withdrawal , says , " i feel like my teeth are hollow , my gums are made of dry rubber and someone's trying to start a bonfire in the back of my bloody head . " 
jackson's response is , " i think i felt that way once . 
they called it love . " 
you'll understand when i say watch this at your own risk . 
serving the world for nearly 1/25th of a century ! 
if anyone had been able in 1983 to forsee a late-night cable show hosted by gilbert gottfried showcasing some of the worst films of the 80's , they'd agree d . c . cab is the quintessential " usa up all nite " movie . 
it's one of those childish r-rated movies that kids would love but can't see until it's edited for tv . 
it's also one of those pointless , almost plotless movies with hardly any laughs . 
and , strike three , it pairs mr . t with gary busey . 
i heard gilbert say d . c . cab had " an all-star cast , " but i'm still hoping there was some degree of facetiousness in that statement . 
when third-billing goes to a two-minute appearance by famed flashdancer irene cara " as herself , " you can't say a damn thing about all-star casts . 
likewise for token appearances by marsha " roz " warfield , paul rodriguez and " politically incorrect " host bill maher , before he was somebody . 
appearing in d . c . cab pretty much had the opposite effect on everyone else , especially irene " i'm gonna live forever " cara . 
d . c . cab is an ensemble comedy from joel schumacher ( who would go on to direct batman forever ) about a bunch of misfits who drive cabs . 
you get the feeling if the police academy cadets had made a different career choice , this would be the result , except here you have such interesting characters as the " token white guy " ( busey ) who wants to get in tight with the blacks now before they take over the world , the token jive talker named tyrone ( charlie barnett ) who wears his hair in rollers and uses the word " honkey " as much as possible , the tough guy with the mohawk and gold chains ( mr . t -- a real stretch for him ) , the aspiring musician waiting for his big break ( maher ) , the mexican gigolo ( rodriguez ) , the woman who actually wants to drive cabs for a living ( warfield ) and the guy who wants to own a cab company for a living ( adam baldwin ) . 
we've all seen dozens of bad comedies from the 80's . 
some are fun to watch and some are actually funny . 
this one is more or less neither . 
you'd think plenty of comedic sparks would fly from the assemblage of talent ( whatever ) , but d . c . cab more or less falls flat on a continual basis , culminating in the usual contrived hollywood finale as baldwin is kidnapped and the other cabbies have to go to rescue him . 
it's a shame no one was able to rescue this movie from the depths of stale jokes and unoriginality . 
d . c . cab has rightly earned its position on " usa up all nite . " 
written by alex cox , tod davies , terry gilliam and tony grisoni 
directed by terry gilliam 
i've always preferred mushrooms to blotter acid . 
dropping acid is like riding a roller coaster blindfolded ; you have no idea where the peaks and valleys are , no idea when the next terrifying decent will send your stomach into your throat , and no idea how long the ride will last . 
then there's the hard knot in your gut and the clenched teeth that come with ingesting a strychnine-laced dose . 
mushrooms , on the other hand , offer the psychedelic equivalent of a leisurely ride on a ferris wheel : a steady , reassuring assent , a short period of thrilling motion and color , and then a smooth landing . 
acid is for daredevils ; mushrooms are for refined seekers of joy . 
my point is that in fear and loathing in las vegas , director terry gilliam has made an acid movie , when i wish he would have made a mushroom movie . 
full of shocking sight gags , aggressive images and grotesque comic performances , the film certainly offers something for those fans of hunter s . thompson's book who want to experience its twisted pharmacological world-view from the inside out . 
but for those of us who just want to enjoy a well-made film , gilliam has produced a mixed bag . 
fear and loathing tells the ostensibly true story of how self-professed " gonzo " journalist hunter s . thompson ( johnny depp ) and hispanic activist attorney oscar zeta actosta ( benicio del toro ) , came to las vegas to cover a motorcycle race and found themselves trapped in the middle of a district attorney's convention while ingesting every conceivable drug available to a man of means in 1971 . 
operating under the pseudonyms of " raoul duke " and " dr . 
gonzo " , the two men careen into vegas on an acid and mescaline bender , then hole up in a hotel suite to binge on amyl nitrite , cocaine , tequila and a rainbow of multi-colored uppers and downers . 
they terrorize every one they meet , mostly because every one they meet terrifies them . 
duke hallucinates giant bats on the way into town , then is attacked by horrifying lizards in the casino lounge . 
dr . gonzo becomes enamored of a thick-bladed hunting knife and begs duke to throw the tape player into the bathtub with him just as jefferson airplane's " white rabbit " reaches its climax . 
and these guys don't just trash hotel rooms - they rape them , humiliate them and leave them for dead . 
that neither of them ends up dead or in jail is testament to blind luck or providence , depending on your point of view . 
thompson's book , besides being a hilarious read , has stood the test of time as an important historical document . 
it simultaneously exposed the 60's drug culture for the sham that it was and exposed las vegas as the place where the american dream came to die . 
pontificate all you want about how the film illustrates thompson's message , but the truth is that , stripped to its bare essentials , what gilliam has wrought is a drug comedy . 
it's a cheech and chong movie . 
you're there to watch depp and del toro ingest a lot of chemicals and then laugh at the results : see johnny take drugs , see johnny fall down . 
there's nothing wrong with this concept , but gilliam tries too hard . 
this is a frantic movie - all sweaty close-ups , wide-angle lenses , dutch tilts and other-worldly lighting schemes . 
there are times when gilliam really does put a convincing representation of an acid trip on the screen . 
but to what end ? 
much of the dialogue comes verbatim from thompson's book , and there are some priceless comic observations . 
but you're hard pressed to hear or digest them amidst all the jumbled camera work . 
this brings us to the performances , which strike me as all wrong . 
depp plays thompson as groucho marks filtered through george c . scott in patton - a gimmicky performance which works against the biting satire of thompson's dialogue . 
in between his several puking scenes , del toro fares better as dr . gonzo , but he also mumbles and sputters so many of his lines that their weight is lost . 
watching these two made me wish that the movie had been made twenty years ago , with dan akroyd and john belushi as the leads - now that would have been something to see . 
it's interesting to note that alex cox , credited as a co-writer on the screenplay , was originally slated to direct before gilliam took over . 
as much of a fan as i am of gilliam's work , cox would have been the better choice . 
sid and nancy , cox's best work , covered essentially the same subject matter , but cox was able to pull back and allow the characters of sid vicious and nancy spungen to carry the film . 
gilliam commits the compound sin of over-directing his film while being uncertain of his purpose . 
what kind of movie was he trying to make , anyway ? 
it doesn't try to be a cautionary tale , and it doesn't work as broad comedy . 
if he had considered more carefully his purpose , the result would have been a much more interesting film . 
but i don't want to be too hard on it . 
there are some truly funny moments , and if you're in a good enough mood you might get a kick out of it . 
i do , however , recommend watching fear and loathing in las vegas under the influence of your favorite controlled substance - i guarantee it will enhance the effect . 
the best thing about , " lake placid " is that it's only 80 minutes long and when it's over you're glad that you didn't waste more than an hour and a half of your time . 
it's nothing more than a bad rip-off of , " jaws " ( and i think that's being kind . ) 
it was written by david e . kelly ( " ally mcbeal " ) as a horror-comedy but fails at both , miserably . 
i was never scared and i think that i only laughed once . 
the crocodile even fails in comparison to the snake in , " anaconda . " 
the plot begins when a man is eaten in half by the giant crocodile in black lake in maine . 
that brings the local sheriff ( brendan gleeson ) and a fish-and-game warden ( bill pulman ) to investigate . 
also , a paleontologist ( bridget fonda ) from new york is sent to look at a tooth and an eccentric millionaire/crocodile lover ( oliver platt ) flies in because he wants to swim beside the beast . 
soon there is tension between everybody because half the people want to kill the croc and the other half want to save it . 
there's also an eccentric old lady ( betty white ) who lives by the lake and has a few secrets . 
as i mentioned before kelley and director steve minor ( h20 ) don't go for a serious approach towards the material but they also don't have anything sly or satirical or witty to say either . 
the betty white character is completely unfunny and none of the other characters are really that interesting , they're all basically idiots . 
if they had any brains the croc wouldn't have been that much of a challenge to catch and they wouldn't have put themselves in half of the situations that they did . 
but then again , if they were smart there wouldn't be a movie . 
basically , " lake placid " is best undiscovered . 
that is , unless you're one of those people who have seen the preview a thousand times on tv or in the theaters . 
i can tell you one thing now : they gave the entire movie away . 
why someone would want to base an entire movie on one premise and then give that crucial detail away in the trailers is beyond me . 
however , if they * hadn't * given it away , the film would've still been suprisingly devoid of suspense given its subject matter . 
obviously , the producers thought they could remake " the deep end of the ocean , " throw in tommy lee jones and a couple of cliches and call it an action drama . 
 " double jeopardy " offers solid acting from ashley judd and tommy lee jones , who got first billing even though he didn't see to be on screen half as much as judd did . 
it also offers some genuinely funny , clever , or full-of-tension moments ( my favorite : judd waking up in the coffin ) , but none of that can salvage the film from its insanely predictable plot . 
half the time i'm wondering whether i'm watching one of those overhyped tv miniseries , which always turn out to be less exciting than advertised . 
judging by the beginning , end , and a huge chunk of the middle , i might have been watching a special hallmark presentation too . 
the movie's stretching for an almost two hour long film with only 30 minutes worth of material . 
implausible material , no less . 
loose interpretation of one of the amendments aside , too many times in the movie i thought , " that is * not * possible * . " 
that kind of stuff is excusable in popcorn movies , but not one like " double jeopardy " that tries to pass itself off as serious drama . 
everything seems dragged out , overplayed . 
when they should've kept us in the dark , they let the cat out of the bag too early . 
i had an epiphany today . 
it occurred to me while i was watching " house on haunted hill . " 
it is as follows : if a trailer makes the film it's advertising look like a trashy , stupid movie , well guess what ? 
chances are , there * is * truth in advertising . 
too bad i didn't trust my own instincts when something-or-the-other possessed me to see this movie . 
i blame it on my sudden craving for a scare and my anticipation of " sleepy hollow . " 
that and " dogma " started too late in the afternoon for my schedule . 
an hour of " angel " or " buffy " is scarier than this doozy that tries to be scary and shtick but falls flat on its face . 
i wish i'd seen it when it was halloween . 
at least i would have been forgiving . 
hey , tis the season . 
the movie was scary ( albeit very confusing , dizzying , and nauseating ) at first , but soon the horror got repetitive and downright laughable because the film obviously wasn't going anywhere . 
now i truly appreciate films like " scream , " " halloween , " or any old hitchcock film where the scariness stems from situations that are at least somewhat realistic . 
that's what spooks people out , the fact that it could happen to them or someone they know . 
there has to be a logical precedent for the situations they want to scare us with . 
sure , utterly unpredictable is good , too , but that's different from utterly nonsensical . 
hohh ( house on haunted hill ) , on the other hand . 
 . 
 . 
well let's just say i about fell off my chair laughing when they oh-so-cleverly revealed that everyone who got invited to the party was related to the psycho doctors who died in the house a couple of decades ago . 
riiiiight . 
y'know , that just sends chills down my spine . 
yeah . 
just like i wet my pants when they told me the house is evil . 
ooooooo . 
hint : blood and guts only work a few times . 
sooner or later people start to tell themselves that it's just ketchup and props and you've got to come up with something better than that . 
there were just too many things in this movie that we've all seen before ; from the inevitable " plot developments " of strangers unwittingly trapped together ; strangers turning against each other ; the evil manifesting itself ; the dead coming back for a last scare . 
each was more predictable than the last . 
why didn't these fools just stay together in one place anyways ? 
sheesh . 
was i grossed out ? 
yes . 
did i get spooked a few times ? 
yes . 
but why ? 
i get really disturbed when there is no why . 
when there weren't random scares that were there for no other reason than for the visual effect ( which wasn't that good either , trust me ) and the scare , the film was filled with drab , laughable dialogue . 
the characters were incredibly flat and cliched . 
not to mention downright annoying . 
you've got a bunch of people going nowhere in their lives ; of course they're dumb enough to go to a party some stranger invited them to provided they win a million dollars if they survive the night . 
jeez , i thought no one fell for those " you may already be a winner " things anymore . 
and of course , all three gals are babes . 
i wonder how on earth the geoffrey rush of " shine " ended up in this movie . 
keep that up , geoff , and you'll qualify for the next batman venture . 
the only single person i enjoyed was chris kattan because , well , he just cracks me up . 
and famke jansen ( sp ? ) 
because she reminds me of the delectable brosnan . 
pierce brosnan ( hey , i willingly endured " dante's peak " three times for him : ) . 
all right , i concede . 
there were a couple of things i enjoyed . 
that perverted little amusement park at the beginning . 
i probably won't ride a rollercoaster for a while . 
and the machine they used to drive geoffrey's character mad ( see , i don't even remember their names ) . 
the machine , not that stupid fishtank with naked wimmin in it . 
i kept waiting and waiting for that inevitable twist at the end of the movie . 
it wouldn't have redeemed the film , but at least it would have made me feel better . 
but no , they opted for the beautiful sunrise ending . 
thank god they didn't add a kiss at the end or i would have puked . 
god , there is no hope . 
director andrew davis reworks his fugitive formula and the results are about as exciting as his last film-- the dreadful comedy steal big , steal little-- was funny . 
keanu " i'd rather play music than play another action hero " reeves is the grad student on the run , who , along with his superfluous sidekick ( rachel weisz ) , has been framed for a sabotaged science experiment that vaporized eight chicago city blocks . 
 ( the mushroom-cloud explosion is a knock-out and easily the best part of the movie . 
or , as one audience member succinctly summed it up : " whoa . " ) 
false information implicates their involvement and boy and girl are soon on the run , fleeing over open drawbridges , across icy lakes , and through the corridors of power at a top-secret , underground energy facility . 
aiding and abetting is the team's shady mentor , played in an excellent-but-so- what performance by morgan freeman . 
 ( brit brian cox is also about , as the behind-the-scenes bad guy . 
he has some fun fiddling with a southern accent . ) 
unfunny , overscored , and without a single shred of suspense , chain reaction is * the * summer movie to walk out on . 
if you make it to the end , a mess of cross-cutting involving another imminent explosion , you'll hear somebody say " i guess it's time to go . " 
heed that warning . 
one of the most blatantly obvious signs that often-acclaimed director sidney lumet's " gloria , " a remake of the 1980 john cassavetes film , had absolutely no effect on me occurred when i was driving home from the theatre . 
suddenly , i realized that since i had stood up from my theatre seat five minutes before , i had not thought once about the film i had just invested nearly two hours of my life in . 
when a movie is over , aren't we supposed to think about it for a while , and have a conversation about it with the acquaintances we have just watched it with ? 
i thought so , but , for one , i saw this particular picture by myself , and #2 , even if i had been with someone there wouldn't have been anything to talk about in the first place . 
to be sure , " gloria " begins with a stirring , rather poignant prologue in which a seven-year-old boy's family is brutally gunned down by mobsters , in search of a disc his father had with incriminating evidence on it . 
right before the men broke in , of course , his father gave him the disc to escape with . 
eventually , the boy , named nicky nunez ( jean-luke figueroa ) , is caught by the mobsters , and taken back to their apartment . 
meanwhile , gloria ( sharon stone ) has just gotten out of prison for a crime she didn't commit and returns to her ex-boyfriend ( jeremy northam ) to recieve the money he promised her for covering up his crime . 
when he refuses to give it to her , and then hears the group of men talking about killing nicky , she leaves with him in order to save his life , but not before holding the men at gunpoint , stealing all of their money , and forcing them to strip nude . 
gloria is the type of fast-talking , smart-mouthed new yorker who always seems to get involved with the wrong people , and she never expected to be stuck with a kid , but she has a heart of gold ( don't they always in this type of movie ) and is only trying to protect the boy , whom she quickly begins to form a close bond with . 
the previous incarnation of " gloria " by cassavetes and starring the luminous gena rowlands , remains unseen by me , but was no doubt superior , even though i can't really imagine how this considerably dull story could be transformed into an entertaining one , regardless of the director or stars . 
there is no doubt in my mind that director lumet has stuck closely to the original , but the film itself is simply lifeless , with only an occasional laugh popping up here and there so that it isn't completely unbearable to watch . 
i liked , for example , a very funny climactic sequence where gloria is deciding whether to leave the school she has left the boy at , and keeps turning the car around , then driving a little ways , then slamming on the brakes and turning around again . 
these bright moments , however , appear long and far between , and the majority of the film deals with the budding relationship between nicky and gloria , which is both painfully predictable and by-the-numbers . 
throughout , my mind was repeatedly asking the question , " who really cares ? " 
as gloria , sharon stone has adopted an over-the-top brooklyn accent that honestly doesn't sound realistic at all . 
in the beginning , in fact , i was amazed at how amateurish stone's performance was , but as the film progressed she got better . 
although not one of her better turns , stone does have a comic flare that refuses to be ignored . 
jean-luke figeroa was fine as nicky and a little more natural than the usual child actors who are so precocious they make you want to gag . 
all other actors who appeared were considerably wasted , none more than cathy moriarty , an entertaining actress in her own right , who is billed fourth and has all of one scene , as gloria's friend whom she turns to for help . 
sony , the studio that released " gloria , " obviously does not have any faith in the film , and i don't blame them . 
they declined to screen the picture for critics , which is never a good sign , particularly with the high-profile people involved . 
although how much money a movie makes does not determine how good it is ( just look at the spectacular " in dreams , " which failed to even make the top 10 last week ) , i have a suspicion " gloria " is going to vanish from theaters faster than " ishtar , " judging from the opening night 7 : 00 p . m . showing i saw it at , where there were about ten to fifteen people present , counting myself . 
although stone can be an impressive actress ( just watch her in 1995's " casino " or 1996's " last dance " if you don't believe me ) and sidney lumet can be a respectable director , there is no reasoning for why they thought the cliched story of " gloria " was worth remaking or , for that matter , why columbia pictures agreed to finance it when they could have been making a picture that actually looked like it might have an inkling of a chance to be successful . 
pre-review note : seeing as the only concern of body shots is " sex " , i will be forced to refer to that particular act innumerable times throughout the duration of this review . 
because of this , i will try to vary word descriptions of " sex " ( meaning if you are offended by pejorative terms , and \ or your name is jerry falwell , you are kindly invited to hit the x up on the left corner of your screen ) , so if there happens to be a word you come across and cannot comprehend , fret not , it's most likely just another way of referring to " sex " . 
i think we'd all agree that any word used incessantly becomes a bit monotonous so i hope you appreciate my attempt to liven up what could potentially be a very boring review . 
though not as boring as the movie which makes steve forbes flat tax plan seem as lively as watching a naked mathew mconaughy play the bongos while high on god knows what . 
body shots is a film so frightened of coitus that scenes of copulation are filmed ominously , in the way you'd normally expect to see a violent attack . 
it's about people who think about screwing , seek it out , and talk about it . 
these are things we all do , sometimes . 
the characters in this film spend every waking moment pondering the simplicities of sexual acts . 
their lives center around the next sexual encounter , but they seemed depressed . 
it's as if fucking is all they have to look forward to after a busy workweek . 
at its core body shots is a message movie , the kind of thing i could picture really progressive church groups showing to middle schoolers in order to turn them off coition . 
michael cristoffer ( who directed gia , another film that treated bumping uglies as if it where evil ) is a moralist with nothing new to say . 
his characters don't communicate anything of interest to each other , so cristoffer gives them an opportunity to let out their inner thoughts by speaking directly into the camera . 
they voice simplistic platitudes like " i like to come " or " sex without love equals violence " . 
huh ? 
and yes that is as complex as this movie's observations get . 
the characters are stupid and shallow , with not one registering as anything more . 
the plot concerns vapid over sexed twentysomethings on an all night hunt for carnal pleasure , then the after math ( the morning after ) of such events . 
we meet the characters as they speak directly to us , confiding in us with their idiotic ruminations on intimacy . 
i would normally go into the characters and the actors who play them , giving you the pros and cons , but for this film i cannot . 
i'm not trying to be clever or witty , but i honestly hardly remember anything that would set them apart from the others . 
with the exception of trent ( played by ron livingston as a bargain basement patrick bateman ) , the rest fade into each other-- a patchwork of fake breasts , defined abs , pearly white teeth , and creamy , flawless skin . 
i vaguely recall brad rowe as the sensitive one , only because his character gets the worst lines ( " sex without love equals violence " ) . 
in between all the confessionals , cristoffer films everything like a headache commercial , with blurry slo mos and dramatic head turning . 
the fact that this director at one point won a pulitzer prize completely baffles me . 
this film is made without one iota of intelligence or insight into the generation that its tag line claims to be defining . 
if body shots is meant to say that all twentysometyhings are idiotic and f * * k-obsessed , fine , i don't have any problem with a film that tries to persuade me to think a certain way , but cristoffer only gives us one side . 
additionally that one side isn't even entertaining ; the characters indulge in buggery without an ounce of sexiness . 
or realism . 
one sexual encounter takes place outside a club on a chain link fence between the two most sensitive characters . 
they suddenly have vigorous intercourse with each other for no apparent reason ( other than that they both happen to be standing next to each other ? ? ? alas , if it could only be that easy ? ? ? kidding of course ) , then , not only isn't it erotic , it isn't real . 
it doesn't feel like an authentic sexual encounter . 
every f * * k scene in this film ( and there are many ) is treated in the same unsexy manner . 
body shots makes fornication dirtier than the most scummy porno film . 
it shows us none of the pleasure that should go along with it , and most of all , it fails to show us why its characters love making it so much if they seem to hate the act of actually doing it . 
the resulting search for nookie ( and you can take that cookie ? ? ? ) over one night leaves us with several tedious plot lines to follow . 
the main concern is much ado over a rape that may or may not have occurred . 
the film shows us two separate versions of the possible rape ( one where it is consensual the other where it is not ) and in both versions the young actress playing the possible victim gets her shirt torn off . 
this is a topic that could be interestingly explored if done intelligently , and if memory serves me i can't think of one film that has done so , and yes i saw the accused which may be one of the most overrated movies of the 80's next to wall street . 
unfortunately nobody gives us reason to care , not the writer , the director or the actors nearly all of whom seem to have wandered off the set of a noxious 90210 spin off . 
paul thomas anderson approached boogie nights in a manner similar to what cristoffer does here , though boogie nights succeeded . 
it was similarly moralistic , but it gave us two different viewpoints ; it showed us how the lifestyle of porn enticed its characters , and it showed us the possible fall-out of such a decision . 
the characters in boogie nights were as idiotic as the characters are here , but anderson seemed to care about them . 
he gave them heart . 
cristoffer gives them nothing but raging hormones . 
he preaches to us , by using his characters to preach to us . 
this is not the way to get any message across . 
why not just direct a public service announcement on the perils of hittin' skins ? 
cristofer kind of does that , though without an ounce of insight , and with a helping of leering exploitation . 
i'm guessing -- and from the available evidence , it's not a great guess -- that burn hollywood burn began life as an insider satire of hollywood excess , stupidity , ego and power-mongering . 
if so , the film that ended up on the screen ranks as one of the most spectacularly ironic unintentional jokes in film history . 
it has already been well-documented that the original title , an alan smithee film , became a problem when miserable test screenings forced re-cuts against the will of director arthur hiller , prompting hiller himself to opt for the directors' guild-mandated pseudonym of alan smithee . 
that left a film satire in the hands of writer joe eszterhas , as humorless a hack as ever put finger to word processor . 
and you could just smell the disaster brewing . 
if you're unfortunate enough to sit through burn hollywood burn , you'll still be smelling that disaster long after the lights come up . 
ostensibly , it's a pseudo-documentary account of a director named alan smithee ( eric idle ) who loses control of a big-budget action film called trio starring sylvester stallone , whoopi goldberg and jackie chan ( all of whom appear as themselves ) . 
when the only recourse available to him is abandoning the project to be called " an alan smithee film " -- which , of course , it already is -- smithee steals the negative of the film and threatens to destroy it . 
among the parties interviewed are the film's producer james edmunds ( ryan o'neal ) and studio boss jerry glover ( richard jeni ) , who spend virtually the entire film narrating the story while painfully unfunny things go on around them . 
it's bad enough that burn hollywood burn has -- literally -- not a single laugh for its entire , blissfully brief 84 minutes . 
what makes it even worse is eszterhas' insistence upon telling every bad joke not once , but twice or even three times . 
michael ovitz references , showgirls references , oral sex references , whoopi goldberg/ted danson references -- all show up multiple times with all the subtlety that is eszterhas' stock-in-trade . 
the reduncancy even manages to turn actively offensive with some frequency , notably with the hilarious use of the word " feminist " as an identifying caption for every single female character in the film . 
by the time coolio and chuck d show up as black independent film-makers the brothers brothers ( cleverly identified as " bad a-- " and " badder a-- " , among other unprintable things ) , you may be ready to walk out of the theater with your coat over your head to avoid being identified . 
those documentary captions , for all their leaden obviousness , allow the best insight into what's so hideously wrong with burn hollywood burn . 
not content to stick any hollywood type with only one jab from his rapier wit , eszterhas fills the screen with bullet points every time a new character appears . 
the producer is a " liar " who " slept in the white house ; " the media are " maggots " and " leeches " working for publications like " the new york slimes " and " newsleak " ( with the camera zooming in on the altered title to make sure you don't miss the joke ) . 
it doesn't even matter that eszterhas tags " penile implant " after his own name when he makes a cameo , because it seems like such a desperate attempt to feign self-deprecation . 
this is a petulant schoolboy's idea of satire -- pictures of hollywood insiders to which eszterhas has taken a pen to draw little moustaches and black out the teeth . 
the last stomach-churning straw comes when burn hollywood burn closes with out-takes over the closing credits , the kind that show the audience how much fun everyone was having making the film that just sucked an hour and a half of your life away . 
perhaps it was just a final , desperate attempt by eszterhas to convince himself there was some purpose behind the film , or to convince everyone involved that a few blown lines warranted threatening to blow their whole career . 
pity everyone involved with this excessive , ego-driven " satire " of excess and ego . 
it's too bad that only directors can remove their names from noxious material like this . 
otherwise , you might have seen credits for burn hollywood burn overflowing with alan smithees . 
 " meg ryan is irresistible in the comedy that celebrates sisterhood ! , " 
screams the television ads for " hanging up , " disastrously written by real-life sisters delia and nora ephron and sloppily directed by diane keaton . 
make me laugh again ! 
not only is " hanging up " misadvertised , since the film wholeheartedly focuses on middle sister meg ryan and gives her two co-stars , lisa kudrow and diane keaton , little more than extended cameos , but they don't actually come together until the final ten to fifteen minutes . 
and we are supposed to believe their strong bond , and smile in the last scene when they rekindle their rocky relationship , despite them being apart for the majority of the running time ? 
excuse me , again , while i almost bust a gut at that truly delusional notion . 
eve marks ( meg ryan ) is the middle mozzell sister , still living in the california town where she grew up , and with a husband ( adam arkin ) and pre-teen son ( jesse james ) . 
her elderly , wisecracking father , lou ( walter matthau , in his brightest performance in years ) has just recently been put into the hospital , in the final stages of what i assume is alzheimer's ( even though the film never enlightens us on exactly what is wrong with him ) . 
while eve's relationship with her mother ( cloris leachman ) is nearly nonexistent , since she ran out on lou and her children years ago , she has had her fair share of up's and down's with lou , who used to be an alcoholic . 
her older sister is georgia ( diane keaton ) , an editor for the self-titled magazine , " georgia , " while maddy ( lisa kudrow ) is the youngest , a soap opera actress . 
interestingly , their professions are given , but we not once ever see them working at their jobs , or , for that matter , learn much of anything about them . 
maddy , georgia , and eve do not see each other much anymore , their adult lives gradually causing them to drift apart , but they do manage to consistently talk on the phone to one another . 
and they talk . 
and talk . 
and talk . . . 
in fact , the telephone is the major star of the film , even more so than ryan , as it appears in virtually every scene of this interminable 92-minute catastrophe that feels like its three hours long . 
if you are able to get through the opening half-hour , in which phones ring so much you feel like jumping through the screen and taking a sledgehammer to them , you will surely survive the rest . 
the question is , who would want to subject themselves to this resolutely irritating , self-involved pat-on-the-back ? 
how could a comedy-drama that has the star-power of meg ryan , lisa kudrow , and diane keaton be so very bad in so many different ways ? 
issues from the past involving the possible jealousy each has had for one of the others is fleetingly brought up , but the film isn't mature enough to deal with such a thing in a thoughtful manner , and since we learn next to nothing about their childhood , it is a lost cause that comes off as nothing more than an afterthought . 
also , it is expected that the viewer quickly catch on to the tricky dynamic that the three sisters have with one another , but no dynamic metamorphosizes . 
and when they do reunite in the finale , their whole consanguinity is reduced to a repulsively annoying three-minute scene in which they argue like little children . 
you can see the impending death coming a mile away , and it conveniently occurs in the next scene , so that the three can quickly come to terms with themselves , and with each other . 
you think to yourself : " the only thing left for them to do is have a playful food-fight , " and like clockwork , it also occurs by the end credits . 
meg ryan is a versatile actress ( look no further than 1998's " hurlyburly " or 1994's " when a man loves a woman " ) , despite her various detractors who stubbornly believe all she can do is romantic comedies . 
with " hanging up , " the only thing she needs to do is completely sever her filmmaking ties with nora ephron , a writer/director/hack who shouldn't be allowed to work in hollywood again after this big-budget , high-profile debacle . 
even if she knew what she was making was not exactly up to par in the quality department , she nonetheless is very good , and the two scenes that work , flashbacks to christmas 1988 , when she had a heartbreaking run-in with her mother , and to halloween 1993 , when lou crashed her son's birthday party in a drunken stupor , are effective because of the realism ryan brings to the situations . 
diane keaton , as georgia , is better as an actress than a director here , but that is a wildly feeble compliment . 
what is more than a little far-fetched is that keaton is distinctly older than ryan and kudrow , although in the very brief glimpses we get at them as children , she is no more than five years ryan's senior . 
yeah , right . 
lastly , poor lisa kudrow has been wasted once again in a big-screen venture , after her even more thin role in 1999's " analyze this . " 
kudrow isn't given enough time to create a full personality with maddy , so it isn't her fault she doesn't register until a few quiet moments sprinkled throughout where she is actually blessed with being given dialogue . 
if anything , though , kudrow is a real talent , and i anxiously await the next time she is given a role more deserving of her time , as in her brilliantly nuanced , oscar-caliber work in 1998's " the opposite of sex . " 
if you are a fan of kudrow's ( and who isn't ? ) , do yourself a favor and rent this gem that puts more good use to kudrow in sixty seconds than " hanging up " does in its entirety . 
as eve's hardworking husband , adam arkin is , predictably , squandered with a role that gives him next to nothing to do , until a subplot reveals itself midway through , only to never be mentioned again . 
cloris leachman , as with ryan and matthau , makes a small , but noticeable impression with her , albeit , very brief appearance , while edie mcclurg , as a rosy-cheeked woman lou had an affair with in the christmas 1988 flashback , manages one of the few laughs in this otherwise joyless production . 
nearly all the emotions displayed within " hanging up " are patently manufactured , and despite the movie wanting the viewer to care about the characters , aside from eve , why would you want to when they are all spoiled brats ? 
if , for some bizarre , " twilight zone " -type of reason , you find yourself in a movie theater showing this film , my suggestion would be to hang up on it before the opening credits are over . 
saying it is a waste of time is an understatement of epic proportions . 
under any other circumstances , i would not be discussing the ending of a film to the extent that i will in this particular review . 
however , in order to fully explain exactly how and why this movie is so awful , a minute dissection of the ending is necessary . 
even though i will not reveal the details of the last scenes , do proceed at your own risk . 
the movie opens ( quite poorly , i might add ) as child psychologist malcolm crowe ( bruce willis , looking like he was dragged out of his trailer at the wee hours of the morning to shoot each scene ) and his wife are intruded upon by one of malcolm's past patients . 
distraught , the suicidal man ( a cameo by new kid on the block donnie wahlberg ) shoots malcolm and then turns the gun on himself . 
cut to the " next fall " , as we find the good doctor quietly observing his latest case , a trouble young man named cole ( haley joel osment , one of the only child actors in a while i didn't want to bludgeoned over the head with a blunt instrument ) . 
after about 45 minutes of seemingly unrelated freak occurrences , we learn that cole has " the sixth sense " , the gift of being able to communicate with the dead . 
and this , as they say , is where the healing begins . 
the sixth sense and its unexpected popularity is founded upon a twist ending that i knew going into the film ( one of roger ebert's colleges was kind enough to give it away on a recent segment of " siskel and ebert " ) . 
although i was at first enraged that an established film critic could so callously ruin a film for thousands of patrons , i soon realized that this turn of events could in fact have been a blessing in disguise ; i've always been a sucker for surprise endings ( my favorite movie is the usual suspects ) and rarely dislike a film that sports one . 
here , since i knew the major plot twist that was coming at the film's conclusion , the possibly of being bamboozled into loving a bad movie solely because of its ending ( something i've fallen victim to in the past ) was eliminated . 
and indeed , my viewing of the sixth sense did prove to be quite an enlightening experiment . 
stripped of the element of surprise , the film was put to the task of showing what it really had , instead of simply hiding behind a shocking conclusion . 
after seeing its true colors , i came to the conclusion that the sixth sense is , despite what the many champions of the movie may say , void of any real power . 
it's a neat concept , but not one that justifies being made into a feature-length movie . 
in fact , the sixth sense relies so strongly on its finale that the rest of the film develops as a sort of prelude to the supposedly earth-shattering revelation that is yet to come . 
and when the final moments do come , it's a huge letdown ; the end makes no sense at all . 
it stupefied me with the heights of its ineptitude and is completely idiotic on a fundamental and very rare level . 
i won't go into any details , but suffice to say that , as far as i can tell , it negates to rest of the movie to such an extent that anyone who buys it even for a second must be suffering from a very acute case of attention deficit disorder . 
now , in all fairness , i cannot say for sure that i would have guessed the ending ( however stupid it may be ) had it not been revealed to me before hand . 
however , i feel very confident that i , as well as anyone who had seen a few " twilight zone " episodes , would have seen it coming a mile away . 
the fact that movie-goers nation wide are surprised by the ending still has me stumped . 
ironically , to fully appreciate the best scene ( that of cole and malcolm attending a little girl's funeral ) , the viewer is required to be aware of a very rare psychological disorder called munchausen syndrome by proxy . 
i wouldn't have even known about this mental disease if i hadn't , by pure dumb luck , caught " dateline nbc " the other week when they did a feature story on it . 
despite being blessed with some really amazing cinematography and a brauva performance from osment ( where was this kid when casting calls were going out for the phantom menace ? ) , in the end , the sixth sense is too chalk-full of contradictions and just isn't plausible enough to warrant even a slight recommendation . 
brian de palma's snake eyes stars nicolas cage's evil twin , who confusingly uses the same stage name as his talented brother . 
like a foreign tourist who screams his lines in english to ensure that he will be understood , cage yells with the ferocity of a man with a bad case of caffeine overload . 
de palma , whose last great film , the untouchables , was crafted over a decade ago seems to have lost his magic . 
in snake eyes , he manages to elicit some of the worst performances possible out of a skilled cast . 
only gary sinise rises slightly above the hackneyed material . 
the rest of the actors become caricatures in this by-the-numbers thriller . 
ryuichi sakamoto's atmospheric and melodramatic music dominates almost every scene . 
heavy on the long violin notes , its rhythm is punctuated by thunder . 
 ( the script by de palma and lost world's david koepp sets the action during a hurricane in an attempt to pump up the adrenaline level and the noise . 
only the latter is achieved . ) 
cage plays rick santoro , a corrupt atlantic city cop who shakes down criminals to get betting money . 
the movie takes place over a single evening when a world championship fight is being held . 
with a flashy , bad wardrobe and a gold cell phone , rick is an obnoxious cop who doesn't know when to shut up . 
spouting cliched and ridiculous dialog , he screams such lines as , " i was made for the sewer , baby ! " 
actually the line is more apropos for the movie as a whole . 
sinise plays kevin dunne , a naval officer who is in charge of the security for the secretary of the navy , who has come to watch the fight . 
but most people in the film are not who they seem to be , and the thin script makes all of them easy to guess . 
the plot , which is told in endless flashbacks , concerns the assassination of the secretary through a scheme set up by some malevolent businessmen ? that adjective is , of course , redundant in hollywood thrillers . 
the flashbacks become repetitious with the same scene shown again and again , sometimes from a different perspective and sometimes not . 
although a brian de palma film requires a certain amount of gratuitous violence , this one is remarkably tame for the man who became famous when he made carrie . 
the movie's outline has some promise , but the movie itself is leaden . 
the film takes itself all too seriously . 
at best , it is a 1940s-style b movie . 
a little humor would have helped the script some , but a complete rewrite would have been better . 
and , although i hate to say it , a different director would have been the biggest improvement . 
snake eyes runs 1 : 39 . 
it is rated r for violence and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
a disappointing biography about the homosexual relationship of two famous 19th century french poets . 
the film managed to remove all the poetry from the poets and instead concentrated on their abrasive personalities . 
the result is merely an academic exercise , leaving an emotional vacuum that it couldn't build on to show them as the poets they were . 
on paper , this shouldn't have been so terrible -- it had a talented director in agnieszka holland ( " the secret garden " ) , a proven screenwriter in christopher hampton ( dangerous liaisons ) , and a capable cast . 
but the film was done in by its inept script , the unappealing way the film was directed , and the miscasting of leonardo dicaprio as rimbaud . 
i found his performance to be the most risible one in the film , with him acting more like a teenage brat than a young genius , spouting obsenities without giving a hint that a true poet lies behind that facade . 
he , especially , looked bad because david thewlis as paul verlaine looked so good despite the turgid dialogue that was thrust upon him and how thin a character he was forced to be . 
but when the two of them were together , it looked like a mismatch . 
leonardo's rimbaud only made the young poet look petulant and crude , yet we know from rimbaud's poetry , that he must have had something going for him because his poetry was awe inspiring . 
the film opens in post-revolutionary france in 1871 , the 16-year-old rimbaud has sent the established symbolist poet verlaine a letter with his poems . 
he accepts verlaine's praises and invitation to be a house guest in his splendid paris home , and rimbaud leaves his sullen farm in rural charleville . 
once there , rimbaud is disappointed in the bourgeoisie household , has an immediate conflict with verlaine's busty 18-year-old wife mathilde ( romane ) , and finds to his regret that the drunken verlaine loves his rich wife for her body and that he lives off her family's money , even though he has nothing else in common with her . 
when verlaine states , " poets can learn from one another , " rimbaud replies in a haughty tone , " only if they're bad poets . " 
he will continue to treat the older poet like dirt for the rest of their relationship . 
verlaine proves to be weak-willed , beating his wife regularly , and plays just as despicable a character as rimbaud . 
when mathilde's father kicks rimbaud out of the house , verlaine finds him in a rooming house and the two become lovers . 
it's a real downer to watch this story unfold into a series of obnoxious behavior patterns on the part of the two poets , which leads them to traveling together and mathilde asking for a divorce . 
in brussels , verlaine gets arrested for sodomy and spends two years in jail . 
while rimbaud becomes angered at the literary world and never writes another poem after he becomes 19 . 
he instead goes to north africa and becomes an adventurer and a gun-runner , and after ten years there , comes home with a tumor on his knee and dies a changed man at the age of 37 . 
the hopeless relationship between the two is what the picture covers in detail and that was not very satisfying . 
the film ends on a whimper . . . with 
verlaine talking with rimbaud's sister about her brother and the poems of his he still possesses , which the sister wants destroyed so as not to embarrass the family or ruin the name of her deceased brother if published . 
this film was especially annoying because rimbaud's poems are filled with a visionary tenseness that are not even approached in this film , as the film only manages to skim the surface of the lives of these poets and completely ignores the value of their poetry . 
i have no idea what the filmmaker was trying to say in this film , but whatever it was , it just didn't work . 
it certainly didn't bring any light into understanding what rimbaud meant to modern poetry and why he earned the reputation as the so-called father of modern poetry . 
in our time . 
in our modern world , where the cool rule , it's hard to imagine that shakespeare is becoming 'the man' . 
and yet - film after film , after film , is based on his everlasting magic . 
in warner brothers' latest production , shakespeare is kicking ass to a rap beat , while his magic and intelligence slowly fades away . 
though the producers of the matrix have vaguely based their picture on william shakespeare's 'romeo and juliet' , its title sequence with a frightening rap song and a black limo making its way through the dark streets of new york , is very hard to associate with shakespeare's poetry . 
the film takes place during a silent war between the two major mafia families in the city - the afro americans against the chinese . 
the youngest son of a chinese mafia chieftain is found murdered . 
the afro-americans are immediately suspected , but a peace treaty is signed between the two godfathers . 
it is at this point that han ( the romeo of the story ) finds out about his brother's death . 
escaping from a prison in china , he returns to united states to avenge his brother's fate . 
but before he can restore justice with his kung fu kicks , he falls in love with a mysterious beauty . 
the only problem is that she is the daughter of his enemy . . 
there's only a weak echo of shakespeare's talent in this disappointing production . 
and there are more problems besides its title . 
of course we don't call it a deformation of a great masterpiece . 
we call it 'modernization' . 
it seems that the producers fear that the audience will not respond to lyrics , without any car chases and gun fights . 
this lack of respect for the audience i find very disturbing . 
kenneth brannagh has already proven that shakespeare doesn't need to be updated , because his tales are grounded in the basics of life and human nature . 
and as long as love , hate , honesty and corruption do exist , everyone will understand and embrace shakespeare . 
i must admit that i found 'rome must die' very confusing . 
i can forgive andrzej bartkowiak , since it is his first attempt at directing . 
he manages to create an incredible atmosphere and directs with a firm precision . 
unfortunately he completely forgot about character- and story developments . 
his latest picture is therefore visually impressive , but intellectually hollow . 
the love story between han ( jet li ) and trish ( aalyah ) , and the mafia intrigues are undeveloped and simplified . 
jet li is one of the most amazing fighters to ever hit the silver screen and aalyah has a magical voice . 
their achievement save this film from being completely braindead , but they are not actors , and therefore can not act . 
they are nothing more than two celebrities put together . 
the other actors , including isaiah washington , russell wong , henry o and dmx all give the standard mediocre performances . 
delroy lindo is the only one that projects a coherent image of reality . 
but there's more than acting to worry about . 
even with li's incredible skills in martial arts , the action scenes ( though technically excellent ) are too long and story updates simply embarrassing . 
to make a long story short : 'romeo must die' is not intelligent enough to be a thriller , not sensual enough to be a love story and too serious to be a fun action film . 
it is certain that bartkowiak would be much better off with o this embarrassing and completely unnecessary parallel to 'romeo and juliet' , so the film is completely stuck - not sure of what to be . 
and in the end it's nothing . 
there are no performances worthy of notice , no interesting character- or story surprises . 
so again , the only good thing about it is its technical achievement . 
this film can boast of great sound , fast paced editing , solid cinematography and some very well coordinated action sequences . 
the music is another factor that prevents you from leaving the theatre . 
it is mostly provided by aalyah's enchanting voice and several carefully inserted rap songs by various artists , that create a kind of 'ghetto feel' to it . 
but when i think back , it's not much i remember from this 'production' . 
as in almost every summer movie , there are some interesting scenes , but most of the moments that i remember are associated with massive special effects . 
it is not a film that will get any attention for its artistic qualities , simply because it doesn't have any . 
for someone who has never read shakespeare , it's another popcorn film . 
for those of us who has , it's a waste of money , time and brain cells . 
isn't it the ultimate sign of a movie's cinematic ineptitude when you can't think of much to say about it other than " it sucks " ? 
one of the first official year 2000 releases , supernova is such a movie . 
i can't seem to get past one-word adjectives with this one , although " boring , " " stupid " and " absurd " doesn't amount to much of a review . 
a shame . 
i would have been able to save myself the chore of desperately trying to elaborate . 
but c'est la vie . 
here goes nothing . 
i'll keep it short . 
i suppose the first bad omen for supernova came when director walter hill ( 48 hours ) removed his name from the movie , requesting that it be replaced with the pseudonym thomas lee . 
the film's fate was sealed in many minds when struggling studio mgm declined to screen it for the press , an event usually signifying a studio's lack of confidence in a particular movie . 
hill's and mgm's actions were prudent . 
when the captain of medical space vessel nightingale dies in a tragic hyperjump accident , a reformed drug addict who is also the first officer , for some reason ( james spader ) is forced to take command . 
the ship picks up a distress call from a nearby planet and , on arrival , picks up one survivor from an apparent accident in an abandoned mining colony . 
one of the crew members ( angela bassett ) knows this passenger , who is played by peter facinelli , and has some bad feelings about it -- and we all know what that means . 
this intergalactic hitchhiker is carrying some mysterious cargo -- a jellylike substance the purpose of which is unknown , though it seems to bring some form of pleasure to whoever touches it . 
another one of the crew members experiences this first hand ; after spending a few minutes partially inside this glob of goo , he does some impressive handstand pushups . 
evidently , touching this enigmatic egg-shaped thingie makes you younger and stronger . 
how ? 
why ? 
the movie never bothers to explain . 
soon enough though , spader and bassett are running around the ship like mad , being chased by the all-of-a-sudden-superhuman facinelli . 
to be honest , i don't even remember exactly why . 
i just remember that i didn't care . 
supernova's plot suggested some more or less interesting ideas , such as the ball of goo being an intergalactic time bomb , but they are all dropped before they have a chance to develop into anything truly intriguing . 
in fact , everything is dropped just so the actors can have some fun running around what looks like an elaborate set . 
well , the effects are good , though there's hardly a studio movie with bad special effects these days so i'm not sure whether that's so remarkable an accomplishment . 
the performances are hardly worth talking about . 
i'm not even sure i can call what's here " performances , " though angela bassett sure is good at giving people the finger . 
james spader is not a bad actor , but he proves to be one of the blandest action stars i've seen in a while , mostly because he isn't given a character with a personality . 
the action scenes are just as bland , since they're pretty much just rehashes of action elements that weren't particularly entertaining the first time around . 
and since the action scenes are everything to this movie , it's pretty much dead in the water . 
and for the life of me , i can't figure out why it's called supernova . 
 " idle hands " is distasteful , crass and derivative . 
if an original thought found its way into this horror-comedy it would die of loneliness . 
plus , you have to question the judgment and sensitivity of studio executives who would green light the release of a movie dealing with the slaughter of innocent teen-agers the week after the tragedy in littleton , colo . 
the movie is insulting to horror film fans and teen-agers . 
the plot , what little there is , deals with anton ( devon sawa ) , a high-school slacker who's hand goes on a murderous rampage after becoming possessed . 
along the way the hand kills anton's parents and his two best friends . 
the friends , also slackers , are so lazy that they return from the dead because the walk into the light was too far for them . 
that is the level of this's atrocity's humor . 
the movie treats death as a joke . 
 " idle hands " is gruesome and morbid . 
the performances are stereotypical and cartoonish . 
i realize this is supposed to pass for comedy , but recent events have surpassed what is on the screen . 
it is not the fault of the filmmakers that real life has overtaken reel life . 
and i can only presume that the writers of " idle hands , " terri hughes and ron milbauer , were trying to make some statement about today's young people and their values in a satiric vein . 
however , it's hard to laugh at death these days , especially ones involving young people . 
with the real horrors of the world put before us on television , a stale pastry such as " idle hands " should be held from release for a few weeks or months to give us time to catch our collective breaths . 
 " idle hands " is bad , no matter the circumstances in the world outside . 
but the context of recent events only heightens its shortcomings . 
the time is not right for this type of movie . 
and as far as " idle hands " goes , the time may never be right . 
this is a movie that shoud be consigned to the trash bin of cinema . 
a movie about divorce and custody in 1995 seems about as timely as a movie about mood rings . 
family breakups have been an all too familiar part of the american landscape for nearly thirty years , and countless dramas have told stories of acrimonious court battles in hand-wringing detail . 
still , i can't recall a comedy about the subject before bye bye love . 
and after it , i still can't . 
bye bye love is rarely funny , more often a weak and melodramatic retread of common tv-movie fare . 
only a few moments which have nothing to do with the film's main premise offer big laughs instead of cliched emotion . 
bye bye love follows one weekend in the lives of three divorced fathers who get weekend custody of their children . 
dave ( matthew modine ) , a father of two , is an inveterate womanizer having difficulty staying faithful to his latest girlfriend ; vic ( randy quaid ) is a foul-humored father of three about to go on a rare date ; donny ( paul reiser ) pines for his ex-wife and has trouble relating to his teenage daughter emma ( eliza dushku ) . 
over the course of the weekend , the three men face various crises , including vic's blind date from hell ( janeane garofolo ) and donny's growing estrangement from emma . 
the three lead actors form a rather unlikely combo , and the quality of their performances is of widely varying quality . 
randy quaid is the best of the three , bitter without being irritating , gleefully spiteful without being frightening . 
his run-ins with is ex-wife ( lindsey crouse ) are a bit over-played , though , and his confrontation with a pompous radio psychologist ( rob reiner ) is gimmicky and implausible . 
he does get bye bye love's best sub-plot , a hilarious dinner date with a gloriously demented janeane garofolo , and he does a great slow burn . 
paul reiser really has only one character , his slightly befuddled , uptight nice guy " mad about you " persona , but he does it well . 
as a personality , he is appealing , but as a character , he becomes pretty boring here . 
matthew modine , is , quite simply , terrible . 
this isn't a performance good enough to be called mailed-in ; he even forgot to put a stamp on it . 
modine lacks any charm in an appallingly under-written role , looks bored most of the time , and gets stuck with a trite little speech about how it's all his father's fault he's such a cad . 
carolco's executives , whose entire future is resting on modine's bankability for the upcoming cutthroat island , must be sweating buckets right now . 
bye bye love basically comes off as a very confused movie , because it spends far too much of its time on the new relationships of its main characters instead of on the relationships between the fathers and their kids , making it just another " dating in the 90s " movie . 
when the movie does deal with the children at all , it is to have one of them scream out an accusation and/or cry , perhaps to be resolved later by a sensitive talk and a hug , perhaps not . 
even more confusing is a sub-plot featuring the late ed flanders as a widower who goes to work and a mcdonald's and befriends a troubled youth . 
it is a sad end to flanders' career , getting caught up in a truly annoying over-use of mcdonald's as a location , a plot device and , apparently , a major advertiser . 
even if bye bye love had decided to spend its time focusing exclusively on the parent-child relationships , it still would have been pretty difficult to pull off , because ultimately there is very little humor one can wring from family break-ups and their effects on children . 
any way you slice it , it is a bad situation for kids , and the makers of bye bye love mostly go for the heartstrings when dealing with the single parenting issue . 
it is left to the dads' romantic fumblings to probide what little humor there is , and it isn't enough . 
there have been comparisons between bye bye love and parenthood , but parenthood was both genuinely funny and genuinely touching . 
bye bye love is a genuine shame . 
according to the publicity material , with this movie the directors " hope to restore good old-fashioned bowling to its rightful place in the mainstream of american consciousness . " 
hmm . 
you never know , they just might be on to something . 
what with the rise of geek chic , lounge music and seventies fashion , the ever-contrary kids of the nineties might just latch on to bowling as another terminally unhip bastion of tackyana to claim as their own . 
but then , i doubt if kingpin will have anything to do with it . 
it's cheesy all right , but connoisseurs of bad taste will find this film exudes that bland smell of stale jokes rather than the invigorating stink of true kitsch . 
that's a shame , because , in the first ten minutes or so the film promises to be a lot more . 
woody harrelson plays the hotshot bowler on the rise , roy munson . 
the movie opens in the fifties with roy's dad dishing out the reader's digest/gumpian wisdom in scoopfuls , shifting to the 70s for a hilarious spoof of saturday night fever . 
the sardonic tone of the proceedings is much enhanced by the presence of bill murray , as the delectably slimy big ern mcracken . 
it's thanks to murray that the first quarter of kingpin seems so good - he gives the wry , derisive edge to this otherwise rather unfocused comedy . 
mccracken dupes munson into a hustling job , then abandons him to an angry mob who mangle roy's hand . 
then it's fast forward 17 years later when munson is a fat , balding loser with a prosthetic rubber hand . 
he's hopeless until he meets ishmael ( randy quaid ) , an amish amateur bowler that munson takes on as protege . 
so together they set out for the million dollar bowling tournament in reno , picking up pretty hustler claudia ( vanessa angel ) on the way . 
with the exit of bill murray , the filmmakers seem to have only one direction to go , and that's . . . 
dumb and dumber . 
yes , indeed , kingpin is brought to you by those modern proponents of laxative humour , peter and bobby farrelly , the directors of the aforementioned jim carrey vehicle . 
so , prepare for much slaparound comedy with flying rubber hands , distended nipples , ridiculous hair and bull semen . 
get set for stock fish-out-of-water situations when city-boy roy puts on a beard and tries to blend in with the amish community , or when suaku straitlaced ishmael takes on smoking , striptease and unchristian neighbour-socking . 
now , don't get me wrong , there's nothing wrong with cheap humour , and i had my fair share of lavatorial laughs with woody and randy . 
the trouble is that these jokes aren't bold or funny enough to drive a movie that bumbles along without much sense of direction . 
it lurches from sports movie to amish-mocking to road-trip to sentimental melodrama , ( pausing for a broadside spoof of indecent proposal , and many shameless plugs for the accompanying pop soundtrack ) , never quite getting it all together . 
some gags fall flat from a lack of build-up , while there are bits and pieces in the movie that simply don't do anything . 
why the long , unfunny fight in the car park ? 
why two of these ? 
why does that guy wear mascara , or that guy have a glass bowling ball with a rose in it ? 
the film is full of these half-thought-through ideas that give the impression of any old gaffer , grip or makeup artist throwing in random stuff and saying , " wouldn't that be funny ? " . 
well , no , actually . 
the actors don't do the movie much favours either . 
woody harrelson comes off okay , plausibly acting dumb , smart , cynical or innocent when the implausible script calls for it , but randy quaid is a ceaseless ham , and vanessa angel has no talent ( like schwarzenegger , she seems more convincing playing a computer-creation than a human -- take the tv series weird science . . . please 
 ) . 
even murray hams it up when he reappears in the movie's climax . 
all in all , a fairly useless attempt at comedy , and a certified no-hoper at kickstarting the bowling renaissance . 
we'll have to look to a reinspired john waters , or perhaps somebody from down under ( " strictly bowling " , anyone ? ) for the definitive bowling comedy . 
the flying inkpot's rating system : * wait for the video . 
 * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha ! 
 * * * pretty good , bring a friend . 
 * * * * amazing , potent stuff . 
 * * * * * perfection . 
see it twice . 
starring kiefer sutherland ; reese witherspoon & bokeem woodbine i used to think that the conversation was the worse film i had ever seen . 
freeway is giving me second thoughts . 
freeway is a modern retelling of little red riding hood . 
only in the nineties , little red riding hood is a foul-mouthed juvenile delinquent played by reese witherspoon , and the big bad wolf is a serial killer ( keifer sutherland ) . 
to top that pathetic premise off -- reese goes to visit granny and you'll never guess who's waiting under the cover's in granny's bed . 
keifer sutherland is one of hollywoods most talented , yet underrated actors , and reese witherspoon is exceptionally talented and will most likely become a major star . 
so what are they doing in this movie ? 
after seeing the end result , undoubtedly they are both asking themselves the same question . 
you might be asking yourself why this is such a short review . 
the answer is quite simple -- i dont want to waste any more of my time writing or thinking about this movie than absolutely necessary . 
i wasted enough of my time just sitting through it . 
note to keifer : you wonder why you aren't a bigger star in hollywood ? 
because you keep making movies like this . 
note to reese : you were great in fear , what happened this time ? 
note to both : don't worry about it too much , no one saw this movie anyway . 
bottom line -- i'm still shaking my head . 
don't waste your time on this turkey . 
if you want to see a great keifer sutherland movie , go rent flatliners or young guns . 
reese witherspoon's abundant acting talents are used to their full potential in fear , a great thriller . 
do yourself a favor and rent one of these movies -- but stay as far away from freeway as you possibly can . 
synopsis : in " sooner than you think " america , the future of law enforcement resides in blade squad , a ragtag group of culturally diverse rollerblading cops with jetpacks strapped on their backs . 
a dangerous criminal , however , attempts to destroy blade squad after his brother dies while being chased by them . 
comments : so , what do an ex-gangbanger turned insubordinate traffic cop , a former prostitute with a substance abuse problem , and a junkie turned dennis rodman wannabe turned cop who crashed four police cruisers all have in common ? 
why , they're all members of blade squad , an elite new crimefighting unit wearing black uniforms , rollerblades , and jetpacks ! 
they also carry video cameras so they can communicate with one another a la the marines in james cameron's aliens . 
yes , it's blade squad , the fox network's wednesday night movie of the week . 
this " movie , " marking its dubious world premiere today , curiously has a number of guest stars . 
 " how can a movie have guest stars ? " 
you may ask . 
well , blade squad is not really a movie so to speak but a 2 hour pilot for a possible tv series packaged as a movie . 
blade squad is dumb . 
blade squad is loud . 
blade squad is obnoxious . 
blade squad will probably be a ratings hit and spawn a long-lived tv series . 
why not ? 
after all , television has given its audience crimefighters with talking cars ( " knight rider " ) , fast helicopters ( " airwolf " ) , and super fast motorcycles ( " street hawk " ) , and viewers have eaten it up in the past . 
so , why not crimefighters with jet-powered roller blades ? 
to be honest , as a made-for-tv presentation , blade squad is at least watchable . 
the film has a relatively large cast of characters , a surprisingly intelligible albeit predictable script , and enough action sequences to keep one half-interested . 
i'd imagine adolescent males , probably the target audience of this turkey , would get a kick out of it . 
i tried to keep that in mind when i watched blade squad . 
i can remember liking " airwolf " and " street hawk " when i was 10 or 11 . 
and , although this isn't saying much , blade squad is leaps and bounds better than the last fox network movie i had the displeasure of wasting time on : the insipidly awful generation x ( a huge disappointment considering the comic book's terrific two-year beginning ) . 
but , i digress . 
despite its limited appeal , blade squad has a lot of kinks to work out if the movie is to become a tv series . 
one , it suffers from mtv syndrome : a lot of quick shots and weird angles continuously jar the viewer's senses while a near nonstop generic rock soundtrack blares incessantly in the background . 
oh yeah , dylan's " knockin' on heaven's door " and bowie's " i'm afraid of americans " are used here , in rather poor taste . 
two , blade squad needs a new crew for the sound . 
the substandard sound editing irritated me to no end . 
characters' dialogue , at times , sounded choppy and unintelligible . 
during one important scene , a song played loudly in the background . 
when a character spoke , the song's volume dropped but did not disappear . 
as soon as that character finished speaking , the song's volume immediately returned to its original level until the next character spoke . 
this sounds trivial , i'm sure , but it distracted me immensely . 
finally , this is commercial television . 
foul language is not allowed , typically , on commercial television . 
thus , don't use foul language in a made-for-tv production because that foul language has to be censored in some manner . 
in an early scene of the film , for example , the lead good guy and bad guy have a minor confrontation in the streets . 
when the good guy spouts out a bad word , a driver conveniently honks his car's horn off-screen to muffle the word out . 
in a " seinfeld " episode , this technique proved funny ; here , it seemed goofy and cut the dramatic tension considerably . 
perhaps future writers , if a show is spun out of the movie , could take a cue from marvel comics' 2099 series of comics . 
make up a bunch of new bad words for the future . 
this way , you don't need a bunch of honking horns or other silly devices to cover up foul language . 
compared to the usual crap broadcast tv networks have to offer in terms of movies , blade squad is a suitable exercise in camp . 
when compared to , say , a movie studio film , blade squad has a lot in common with a term which shares its initials : bs . 
 ( review written august 12 , 1998 ) 
what a contrast ! 
in the space of two days , i saw shakespeare in love and hurlyburly . 
i'm not sure you could get two more different movies . 
while the former was all over the top , telegraphing everything , shoving its philosophy of life down our throats , hurlyburly was the complete opposite , wound so tight and with so much buried in its script , one could spend weeks thinking about it . 
this is one interesting movie . 
it's very much in a similar vein to one of my favourite movies of '98 , in the company of men , although not quite so nasty . 
there's lots of talking and some scary insights into the world of men . 
hurlyburly doens't contain much plot : we just follow eddie ( sean penn ) around as he tries to make sense of his life and the people around him . 
his big question is : does it all pertain to him ? 
and if it does , how is he supposed to feel about it all ? 
 " it " means everything : television , friends , events that happen . 
i guess it could be summed up more crudely as : what's it all about ? 
this is not a movie for answers . 
donna ( anna paquin ) gives some but they're not really satisfying : they just lead to more questions . 
that's what makes this movie stay on your mind . 
these are the sorts of questions that occupy our time . 
even when we push them to the background , however we resolve these questions influences everything we do . 
the performances are all superb in hurlyburly . 
i haven't seen sean penn in much before ( in fact , i can't remember seeing him in anything ) , but he is brilliant in this . 
eddie isn't a likeable character , but sean penn makes him understandable . 
i don't want to be his friend but i'd like to help him . 
chazz palminteri is also great as phil , making him an awful person . 
i'd never want to know phil but still i understand why eddie wants to be his friend . 
everyone in this film nails their performances , making this world real . 
it's a nasty world ; it's a sexist world . 
unlike shakespeare in love which is unfailingly politically correct , hurlyburly is a man's world , seen unapologetically through the eyes of men . 
i find this fascinating and on two counts , depressing . 
first , it's depressing that such a world exists . 
a large part of hurlyburly's success is that it convinces me that such people are real and that this sort of environment exists every day in hollywood ; that there are a large number of men out there who believe women to be completely peripheral to their world , toys , playthings . 
sure , everyone is background to everyone else but in this world , women are a long way in the background . 
second , these are the movies that are being made : stories about men's world . 
where are the stories about women's world ? 
not the soap operas and the " chick flicks " that are meant to satisfy women , but the real stories that touch on the essence of life like hurlyburly does for men . 
hurlyburly is based on a stage play and that is evident from the moment the film starts . 
it's very talkative , intelligent and static . 
while this can make the film drag a bit , and people sometimes sound like they're quoting textbooks , mostly this is a good thing . 
not all films have to be filled with special effects and sweeping panoramas . 
not all films have to underestimate the intelligence of their audience . 
all it means is that hurlyburly is probably just as effective on video as it is on the large screen . 
it also means that you have to pay attention . 
capsule : the running gag pair of characters from all of kevin smith's films gets their own movie . 
the gags are sporadically funny . 
it is more than occasionally funny for teens who are fond of scatological humor and anti-gay jokes . 
the plot is weak and the leads are not a particularly funny comic team . 
the little inside jokes and digs at other entertainment and particularly at kevin smith films are the best features of the film . 
sadly for me they were just not funny enough to make the film worth watching . 
this feels like the high school skit that that the principal would not let the kids do on talent night . 
 ( and it turns out he had very good reasons . ) 
 , low 0 ( -4 to +4 ) 
a film needs a plot . 
it needs characters for empathy value . 
it needs a story and an emotional center . 
if a film is just a chain of jokes it can only be so good and any entertainment value will succeed or fail based on how funny the jokes are . 
kevin smith has now made two satisfying films , clerks and chasing amy . 
with dogma he tried to make a philosophical religious comedy and mixed with a madcap romp . 
peter cook and dudley moore did that very successfully with their bedazzled . 
but getting the combination to work is very hard to do right and kevin smith's fecal monsters in dogma were not the way to do it . 
his remaining two films , mallrats and his new jay and silent bob strike back are aimed squarely at a teenage audience . 
jay and silent bob strike back is a compendium of gay jokes , penis jokes , flatulence jokes , film pastiches , and in-jokes . 
how funny the jokes are will be a subjective call . 
for me , the vast majority of the jokes were just not very funny . 
there was not enough cleverness or variety . 
it is funny at most once or twice to accuse someone of being gay . 
penis jokes work only so many times . 
showing up as minor characters in every kevin smith film jay and silent bob were a clever pair of human running gags . 
they were sort of the modern equivalents of naunton wayne and basil radford , the comic duo who showed up satirizing the english middle class in several good british post-war films including dead of night , the lady vanishes , and passport to pimlico . 
jay and silent bob were originally supposedly typical generation x stoners . 
as the series wore on they had larger and larger parts . 
in jay and silent bob strike back they are the leads . 
jay and silent bob ( played by jason mewes and kevin smith ) are chased away from the front of the convenience store where they were dealing drugs in clerks . 
this leaves them at loose ends . 
they are not sure what would be worthwhile to do with their lives when they hear that a comic book with characters visually modeled on them will be adapted into a movie . 
they decide to devote their lives to wrecking the movie or getting some of that big movie industry cash . 
so it is off to hollywood to shake down the movie company and having adventures along the way . 
the film is mostly about their adventures on the road and when they get to hollywood 
the problem with this comedy team is that neither really pulls his weight to make the film funny . 
silent bob , being silent , can only contribute to the comedy by reacting with that very expressive face of his . 
this makes his piece of the comedy even less than a straight man like a dean martin or bud abbott would have . 
jay has to be the comic . 
he could carry the load for both if he were extremely inventive . 
the problem is that he is not sufficiently funny . 
he is too bland to be the comic half and his lines just do not show any comic flair . 
so jay and silent bob are a long way from being a successful comic team . 
their starring roles and the low humor make this a comedy for those young at mind and for people who can laugh at gags they have seen before--sometimes just minutes before . 
like dogma before it , but definitely not like chasing amy , this film feels more like an amateurish skit than a real movie . 
certainly neither the plot nor the characters are at all involving . 
they are excuses for gags , many of which still fall flat . 
it is dogma without any of the humorous theological content . 
the film does not offer much to an adult audience . 
i rate it 4 on the 0 to 10 scale and a low 0 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
the previews for the movie are pretty good . 
they show a little plot , all the characters , and the emotional highlights , all spliced together to give a general impression of the script . 
unfortunately , the full movie adds nothing but 115 minutes . 
the residents of mystery love hockey . 
mystery and hockey go together like texas and high school football . 
the townsfolk love hockey so much that they even acquit a player who's guilty of shooting another man ( yes , that's one of the movie's jokes . ) 
every saturday , the best players pair off for a game , and the whole town comes to watch . 
the town's prodigal son charlie ( hank azaria ) wrote an article on the weekly game for sports illustrated . 
mystery's national fame has the town abuzz . 
a week later , charlie actually shows up in person , and he brings with him an offer from the nhl . 
the new york rangers will come to mystery to play the locals . 
the mysterians see this as both good and bad . 
on the one hand , they'd love to have the fame and the money of such an exhibition . 
on the other hand , they don't want to turn up as the butt of leno and letterman jokes . 
the movie follows a handful of lives that are affected by the proposition . 
biebe ( russell crowe ) has just been retired from the team and is asked to coach the boys , including his new replacement . 
he's already resentful , and to top it off charlie has been making eyes at his wife . 
crowe is not given a lot of room to act in this film , so he's just kind of stuck with constantly brooding . 
charlie , meanwhile , is resentful of having born in a town where hockey is the only measure of a man's worth . 
his " gift " of the feature story , and of the new york rangers , was his way of compensating for not being a better skater . 
he hoped it would earn him some respect and merit , but the townspeople find reasons to continue disliking him . 
burt reynolds could have been interesting as walter , the judge whose courtroom was befouled by a moronic jury of hockey fans . 
walter actually has some experience with collegiate hockey , but he actively tries to put it behind him . 
he wants his son to take the game more seriously , but he wants his community to just get over it . 
reynolds could have been good , but sloppy writing and/or editing keep walter in the corner , and so reynolds never really gets to pull his performance all together . 
one character actually was interesting . 
biebe's wife ( mary mccormack ) , like the judge , understood that there was more to life than hockey . 
but unlike him she has come to accept the skewed view of the community . 
she chose the town and her husband with her eyes wide open . 
her unique insight is verbalized once , and it lasts only a scene before it is gone , but her performance carries the hint of some deeper wisdom . 
mysterty , alaska follows a handful of other characters , but none are well developed or worth mentioning . 
the biggest problem with this movie is that there is no real heart to the story , no underlying thing that the movie is really about . 
instead , roach and screenwriters david e . kelley and sean o'byrne try to cram the entire human condition into this sports comedy . 
they try to make you laugh and cry , to feel outrage and pride . 
they present the framing and cadence for jokes , but there's nothing truly funny . 
they show appropriately staged scenes of sadness , but they give you nothing to be really sad about . 
as columnist molly ivins would say , it's all hat , no cattle . 
the perfect opportunity arises for roach to say what this movie is really about . 
there is a funeral scene , played with appropriate gravity and somber music . 
it is a chance for the characters to reflect on their lives and decide what's truly important . 
russell crowe steps forward to speak , about to spell out the movie's metaphor for us . 
he says that what really matters in life is " community . . . . " 
then adds " and hockey . " 
i guess these mysterians really are as shallow as they appear . 
only mildly bad , mystery , alaska probably deserves 2 stars . 
i even laughed out loud , genuine laughs in places . 
but i docked it an extra half star when mike myers , a friend of roach , turned up in a role that didn't suit him . 
myers is a comic character actor . 
he puts on masks , becomes an outrageous caricature , and is funny . 
he's great as austin powers , dr . evil , or any of his scottish characters . 
nobody else in mysterty , alaska is a comic caricature . 
all the other people have the feel of dramatic characters in semi-serious roles . 
for roach to bring in myers for a few cheap laughs shows incredible contempt toward the rest of his cast , toward his audience , and indeed toward the film itself . 
it's an acknowledgment by the director that the film is not worth taking seriously . 
a suave , cool , collected , rich , uptight bad guy = cliche . 
a clumsy criminal oaf to add to the laughs = cliche . 
a bad guy who owns a wild animal = cliche . 
a crooked , chauvinistic law enforcer type = cliche . 
at an intense moment , our main character tries to get away , but the car has trouble starting = cliche . 
complaining about cliches = cliche . 
ok , ok . 
so we always hear about cliches . 
but if there was ever to be a prime example , the real mccoy is it ! 
not one uttered word , not one frame of film , not one character in this whole movie isn't a cut and paste example of everything we've ever seen . 
they might as well use this as a training film : " how to make a bank robbery film in the 90's " . 
karen mccoy ( kim basinger ) is a bank robber who just got out on parole after a six-year stay at the state prison . 
she wants to make things right and go straight , especially with the fact that she has a six-year old son out there who doesn't even know she's alive . 
aware of mccoy's bank robbing expertise , sniveling bad guy jack schmidt ( terence stamp ) uses the same six-year old to coerce mccoy into returning to her past . 
he wants mccoy to pull off an elaborate heist of 18+ million dollars at the same bank she got caught trying to rob six years earlier , which , by the way , is somehow due to schmidt . 
and if she refuses ? 
who knows what he'll do to the kid . 
 ( cue sinister laughter ) 
this movie is so pathetically pitiful that it's hard to know where to begin . 
the aforementioned cliches are brutally abundant . 
i can't stress enough how every single element , whether it be a character , the dialogue , a plot " twist " , etc . , is so damn generic that you'll wonder if * anyone * is working behind the scenes , let alone in front of the camera . 
basinger is absolutely vacant . 
and where do they get off trying to make us emotionally attached to her ? 
here's someone that spent their time robbing banks , and now as she heads onto the street , we're supposed to feel sorry for her . 
as she confronts her son , who doesn't even know who she is , are we supposed to break into tears ? ? 
especially when neither basinger nor zach english , who plays the kid , has any depth or emotional-radiance whatsoever . 
i suppose i should mention val kilmer . 
yeah , that's right - he's in it ! 
quite sadly too , seeing as how i can discuss everything about the movie and never mention his name . 
and he got second billing ! 
to be fair , i will admit that kilmer had potential in his role as the bumbling criminal wannabe j . t . 
barker . 
unfortunately the script doesn't allow much room for improvement , and when his character is used like bookends ( he never shows up in the middle of the film ! ) , 
we have no time to appreciate what he might have brought to this project . 
the real mccoy just can't keep it's head above water , and soon , * very * soon , sinks into a cliched mess of movie . 
the actors are like dummies being moved about by an unenthusiastic puppeteer , and the dialogue , particularly schmidt's trite dialogue , falls like the niagra . 
this is definitely one to avoid , folks . 
the real mccoy is anything but ! 
ironically , one of the themes of 200 cigarettes is that you should try to make the best of every moment in life . 
unfortunately i will no longer be able to say that i lived every moment of my life to the fullest , because i spent 95 otherwise perfectly good minutes , watching this sad excuse for a movie . 
actually smoking 200 cigarettes in the same 95 minutes couldn't be any worse for you than it is to watch the movie . 
not only is it a pathetically bad film overall , but 200 cigarettes actually has no redeeming qualities whatsoever . 
the plot is scattered , thin and predictable ; the acting is monumentally bad ; and the style of film making resembles a home video . 
it is december 31 , 1981 and the big party is at monica's ( martha plimpton ) house . 
but no one has arrived yet . 
her 8 invited guests and several people that they have picked throughout the evening are wandering the streets of new york city in various groups . 
some of them know each other through their common bond of having slept with monica , and some are total strangers . 
but they all are to face their own personal neuroses before night's end . 
those who are invited are the ones that have the issues . 
it is up to those who aren't to help them come to terms . 
first there is eric ( brian mccardie ) who is a former boyfriend of monica's and is just getting over the heartbreak of their relationship terminating prematurely because of his sexual performance , or lack thereof . 
he is one of the most bland characters , in a film full of dullness , because he is so utterly predictable and stereotypical , a common trait of this poor production . 
bridget ( nicole parker ) and caitlyn ( angela featherstone ) who are both extremely sensuous young women looking for someone to handle their desires on new year's eve and tag along to the party with them . 
they stumble across a nameless bartender ( ben affleck ) who is the one truly perfect character in a film of imperfections . 
he is nether sexually deprived , nor uncertain about his future , as he is in law school . 
his lack of flaws is both boring , unrealistic and painful to watch . 
as bridget and caitlyn make passes at him you are neither entertained nor humored by the sub-standard comedy . 
moving on , there is val ( christina ricci ) and stephie , ( gabby hoffman ) 2 teenage girls with fake identification and very different thoughts . 
val is monica's cousin and a true fan of the new york scene . 
on the other hand , stephie is convinced that she is vulnerable to crime when the two venture out of their usual locations in search of the party that they just can't find . 
paradoxically , it is 2 punks that they meet at a bar ( actually they attempt to flee from their presence , but aren't successful ) who guide them through their fears and force a level of relaxation upon their warped minds . 
of all the insanely dull and uninteresting couples , only one approaches a level of decency in both acting and plot . 
wisely , the movie's creators have put heavy emphasis on lucy ( courtney love ) and kevin ( paul rudd ) who are best friends and share the common bond of being dateless . 
paul has just broken up with long time steady ellie ( janeane garofalo ) and is starting to come to terms with his loss when lucy informs him that ellie had been sleeping around during their relationship . 
however , the only complexity to these two characters is that they seem to want to be more than friends , and that is reiterated when they attempt sexual intercourse in a bathroom stall on more than one occasion during this strange evening . 
finally , there are the two worst performances and worst sub-plot of the film . 
jack ( jay mohr ) and cindy ( kate hudson ) have been going out for a short period of time and jack just learned that he took cindy's virginity the night before . 
while she attempts to play this down and be her usual self , he is a predictably self loathing male as he attempts to deal with a string of one night stands that includes the recently deflowered cindy . 
very often , when a film is as putrid as this production , there will at least be a decent quality of film making to reveal an occasional moment of glory . 
however , this film has neither the quality of cinematography nor the moments of glory to be highlighted . 
instead , what you get is a collection of rough and inconsistent cuts , bad continuity and inaccuracies . 
first , and most noticeable is that as the film goes from one subplot to another , there is no apparent order that it follows , and it is also weekened by unnecessarily edgy edits from scene to scene and shot to shot . 
at other times , objects seem to get up and move and hairstyles and costumes change from shot to shot . 
there are also at least 4 scenes in a taxi cab that go from start to finish . 
not in a single one of them does anybody pay the driver . 
and yet , no matter how miserable this film may be , and no matter how poor the acting is all around , there was a ray of a hope for these many bad plots . 
perhaps , if the makers had just decided to concentrate on one or two or , perhaps , even three , there might have been the time and opportunity for some character development , or quality acting , or even a decent plot payoff at the end . 
but it didn't happen that way . 
the cast of quality name actors was forced into roles that not even one of them could convert into a mediocre performance , and every story line crashed and burned quicker than it takes for the ball to drop at midnight . 
1990s would remembered as the era of binary movie events in hollywood - two movies dealing with the same subject , or , to be precise , same " high concept " . 
in summer 1994 , that " high concept " was " mad bomber action thriller " . 
in few weeks , " thrillride of the summer " actionfest speed was followed by rather action thriller blown away , so disappointing that most of the people these days associate the title with the 1992 thriller in which nicole eggert did few nude scenes . 
the movie begins in the prison in northern ireland , where gaerity ( tommy lee jones ) , ira terrorist with the great talent to make lethal explosive devices from almost any material , escapes from prison . 
he comes to boston , where he accidentally notices jimmy dove ( jeff bridges ) , dedicated bomb disposal expert within boston police . 
few people except gaerity know the dove's violent past , when he used to be ira terrorist before becoming sick with violence , betraying gaerity and emigrating to america where he changed the name and started using his experience for good purpose . 
gaerity holds dove personally responsible for his captivity and begins the campaign of bombing terror , directed specifically at dove's colleagues , friends and relatives . 
dove , who is just going to retire and start family , now must confront the mad bomber . 
while speed doesn't even try to bother with plot and characters , using them only as an excuse for long and spectacular action scenes , blown away tries to be more conventional and provide the action with some back story . 
and that is the main reason why it is inferior to speed . 
badly written plot and badly written characters are sometimes worse than no plot and no characters at all . 
screenplay by john bateer and john rice , barely touches the complicated issues of northern ireland , using the tragedy only as the cheap backstory for even cheaper drama . 
the plot is , of course , full of implausibilities . 
the main one is the fact that movie fails to explain how the single individual , no matter how brilliant he is , can produce thousands of deadly devices and hold entire city at bay . 
those questions , same as in the case of speed , could be forgotten while the action goes on , but the pauses between action scenes are filled with cliched and predictable situation that should provide some background to the characters . 
because of them , movie seems a little bit too long , and boring at times . 
the most annoying element of the film , however , is tommy lee jones in the role of mad bomber . 
his acting is so over-the-top that potentially fascinating villain turns into pathetic caricature of himself . 
this role is in painful contrast with the strong performance given by that same actor in fugitive . 
the film have few bright points , though . 
some of the action scenes are fine , which should be credited to director stephen hopkins ( predator ii , judgement night ) . 
and forrest whitaker really shines in minor role of dove's colleague . 
but , all in all , blown away is a film that was justifiably shadowed by its more famous , yet hardly unforgettable competitor . 
don't get me wrong -- i tend to appreciate besson's naive , unashamedly romantic worldview , an artsy european sensibility gone thoroughly hollywood . 
his 1994 leon is exciting and absurdly moving , thanks mainly to the interplay between jean reno and a young natalie portman , and 1997's the fifth element is a goofy paean to love , l-u-v , that's even more of a hoot on repeated viewings . 
but his joan of arc is a mess , despite some stirring battle scenes and the mostly knockout presence of a close-cropped milla jovovich as the maiden herself . 
jovovich , besson's own personal muse through the making of his last two films ( though they've since separated ) , is magnetic and energetic enough to play a credible joan ( as long as you believe joan was not just a warrior , but also a fabulous , supermodel-level babe ) . 
and besson remains a servicable action film director , though not an especially facile one . 
leading her army against the seemingly impenetrable fortresses of the english , joan's struggle against great odds is undeniably stirring , and besson helps you understand how the french could believe , fervently , that god is on her side . 
besson's big mistake , i think , is trying to dramatize the interior life of his subject . 
yes , joan had visions -- but i guarantee that whatever image a sympathetic audience conjures in its collective mind will be more compelling than the blue-eyed christ figure on display in besson's hallucinatory dream sequences . 
the whole conceit turns into a disaster right about the time dustin hoffman ( billed as " the conscience " ) shows up , spouting platitudes and sending poor milla running around her cell , babbling like ally mcbeal . 
that's kind of a shame , since she does quite well up to that point , charging into battle with a banshee wail that suggests the eruption of a sublimated bloodthirstiness . 
that darkly attractive aspect of her character -- that she's as likely a charismatic madwoman as the vessel of the lord -- is more or less betrayed by the final reels , in which the conscience browbeats her over the killing she's overseen and joan starts to look like little more than a very confused young lady who's about to take a fall . 
as the story winds down , with joan condemned to a horrible death by fire , besson is aiming for tragedy and psychological significance . 
trouble is , he's chosen a lurid , often jokey tone for the balance of the picture -- including some blithe cgi bloodshed in the battle scenes -- and it's impossible to shake the feeling that this particular vision of the middle ages is , to a great extent , nothing more than a put-on . 
this glib , pre-fab version of such a great story makes me all the more grateful for dreyer's the passion of joan of arc ( 1928 ) , a film whose dialogue is drawn from the actual transcripts of joan's trial , and which stands as one of the most harrowing experiences in all of cinema . 
compared to that film , the messenger plays as a crime against history . 
-------------------------------------------------------------- directed by luc besson written by besson and andrew birkin cinematography by thierry arbogast music by eric serra starring milla jovovich france/usa , 1999 
theatrical aspect ratio : 2 . 35 : 1 -------------------------------------------------------------- 
delicatessen ( directors : marc caro/jean-pierre jeunet ; screenwriters : gilles adrien/marc caro ; cinematographer : darius khondji ; editor : herve schneid ; cast : dominique pinon ( louison ) , marie-laure dougnac ( julie clapet ) , jean-claude dreyfus ( clapet-the butcher ) , karin viard ( mademoiselle plusse ) , ticky holgado ( marcel tapioca ) , anne-marie pisani ( madame tapioca ) , jacques mathou ( roger ) , rufus ( robert kube ) , howard vernon ( frog man ) , edith ker ( granny ) , boban janevski ( young rascal ) , mikael todde ( young rascal ) , chick ortega ( postman ) , silvie laguna ( aurore interligator ) , howard vernon ( frog man ) ; runtime : 96 ; miramax/constellation/ugc/hatchette premiere ; 1991-france ) 
reviewed by dennis schwartz 
a black comedy set in the near future in a boarding house run by a depraved butcher . 
the comedy is played more in comic strip style for entertaining value than for deeper satire , as it features mostly zany sophomoric sight gags and relies heavily on special effects . 
the world has fallen on hard times and there are food shortages which include no meat , so the butcher serves up meat from human flesh to customers who pay with grain , almost as valued a commodity . 
that's the big joke in the film and the novelty of that cannibalism idea wears thin mighty fast , as the characters are too absurd and sketched too thinly for us to care about them . 
this tasteless postapocalyptic french comedy is a first feature for the co-directors marc caro/jean-pierre jeunet . 
it failed to reach my funny bone and instead left me mostly annoyed at its slight story and its dark projections for the future . 
an ex-circus clown named louison ( dominique pinon ) , the film's too-good-to-be-true hero , answers an ad for work as a handyman for clapet ( jean-claude dreyfus ) , and the butcher and landlord , offers him room and board in his house . 
the butcher's clumsy and near-sighted daughter julie ( marie-laure dougnac ) falls in love with the skinny , weird looking clown , and the two make some music together , with her playing the cello and him a saw . 
they are the innocents , surrounded by a boarding house of misfits suffering from fear and watched over by her overbearing father , who has lured into his tenement the clown , as he has his past innocent victims , so that he can put his cleaver to him and then sell him as meat , which he intends to do as soon as the clown fixes up the tenement . 
the entire film takes place in the shabby tenement , and the tenants are an odd lot of bizarre malcontents , who do not trust each other . 
there are two youngsters ( boban janevski & mikael todde ) who do any kind of mischief they can . 
a frog man ( howard vernon ) who lives with water on the floor so he can raise his frogs and snails that he eats . 
two brothers ( mathou & kube ) who create little cow-moo novelty toys . 
a man ( holgado ) who sells a bullshit detector to the butcher for his piece of meat . 
a slutty woman ( karin viard ) , who lives with the butcher and only wants his meat . 
the aristocratic woman ( silvie laguna ) who tries numerous times to commit suicide but is too inept to do it right . 
the tenants are too afraid to come out at night because they know what the butcher is up to , so they are forced to communicate with each other through a pipe that runs through the building ( in one scene they are all in musical harmony to the lovemaking of the butcher and his gal , as their bedsprings squeak ) . 
there is also a sex-crazed postman ( chick ortega ) , who lusts for the butcher's daughter and carries a gun while delivering the mail . 
there is also an underdeveloped subplot about a band of incompetent underground veggie fanatics , called trogolodistes , who have been summoned to rescue the clown and steal some grain . 
the directors overloaded the film with too many eccentrics , as the comedy seemed forced while the surreal look of the film added no dramatic intensity . 
delicatessen could have some appeal to the cult film crowd who like their meat sliced thin , monty python fans , and those who liked terry gilliam's brazil , a film similar in spirit . 
it's a shame the execution of this concept falls very short of its premise . 
the movie is lacking and most unsatisfying . 
osmosis jones is crude , gross , disgusting , and was directed by the farrelly brothers - the twisted siblings behind there's something about mary , me , myself and irene and a couple of other movies in which the humor is mostly targeted below the belt . 
not that there's anything wrong with scatology . 
i bet even cavemen appreciated bathroom humor - such as it was . 
it's merely that with osmosis jones , the farrellys humor is too juvenile , too predictable . 
you can almost foresee the puns just by viewing the part of the inner anatomy a sequence is drawn . 
osmosis jones looks like one of those old health class movies gone psycho . 
the trouble is , the animation may please the very young , but the jokes may be over their heads , while the teen-age audience may find it too tame for their tastes . 
adults ? well , let's just say most will find it unappetizing . 
osmosis jones plays like a 100-minute infomercial for the eat healthy foods lobby . 
the live action sequences revolve around frank ( bill murray ) , who seems to be the grungiest human being in the universe . 
he continually looks as if he needs a shave and a shower . 
frank , much to the consternation of his daughter , is a fast-food addict , eating anything - and everything - that can kill you . 
he works at a zoo where the animals look cleaner - and presumably smell better - than he does . 
frank's body is invaded by thrax , a lethal virus , after frank eats a hard-boiled egg that had fallen to the ground . 
it's not gross enough that frank picks the egg up from the dirt and plops it into his mouth . 
nope , the farrellys pile it on by first having frank wrestle a chimp for the egg , wresting it from the primate's mouth . 
like i said , the gross meter tips the scales on this one . 
after ingesting the egg , the movie begins its animated sequences . 
here , osmosis jones ( voiced by chris rock ) , a renegade white blood cell is teamed with drix ( voiced by frasier's david hyde pierce ) , a 12-hour , painkiller cold capsule to battle thrax ( smoothly voiced by laurence fishburne ) . 
basically , what we have is a cliched cop-buddy movie , rife with all the clich ? s of that genre . 
and this is why osmosis jones doesn't click . 
it merely falls back on tired , familiar conventions instead of creating new and exciting situations . 
the jokes and puns are lame : osmosis searches out a snitch , a former flu virus . 
after pumping him for information , drix tells osmosis , " funny , he doesn't look fluish . " 
and the jokes don't rise above that level . 
the live action scenes are no better . 
frank is such a slob , so unappealing that it is difficult to fathom how he ever married or even sired a child . 
he's almost a bigger cartoon than the animated characters . 
osmosis jones is a movie that may be too violent for young children as thrax burns and dissolves blood cells right and left . 
the animation is rather two-dimensional and flat . 
it lacks scope and depth . 
it is an unappealing movie that will leave you scratching your head , and maybe leaning toward a shower after you walk out of the theater . 
has hollywood run out of interesting characters and plot-driven suspense thrillers that we must spend two hours watching will smith and a gritty gene hackman exchange obtuse dialogue and run around dodging fireballs ? 
in enemy of the state , that is exactly right . 
a few parts the net , and a few parts conspiracy theory , enemy is about as exciting as watching smith talk to cgi aliens in 1997's lame brained men in black . 
will this guy ever get a real role ? 
he has the bruce willis syndrome . 
the plot is bascially smith , playing a lawyer , getting into hot water with some high government murderers , who assassinated a powerful political figure earlier in the movie , when a tape of the killing gets into his hands . 
he inlists the help of an old conspirator ( hackman ) , and , at the end , er . . . you 
know . 
enemy was one of the worst films of last year . 
not only was it sloppy in telling its story and getting its facts straight , the acting was mediocre when it should have been energy driven , and i didn't like how smith always magically out-smarted the badies when all the other extra characters , seeming more intelligent than smith , somehow got run over by a truck . 
enemy came out around the same time as the superior star trek : insurrection . 
i know these two films are different in , well , everything , but the fact that enemy outgrossed insurrection just baffels me . 
somehow , quality can't overshadow quantity . 
vegas vacation is the fourth film starring chevy chase and beverly d'angelo as the heads of the hapless griswold family . 
as with the other three films , their two children , rusty and audrey , are played by a revolving series of actors . 
this time ethan embry and marisol nichols fill the roles . 
also back , is cousin eddie ( randy quaid ) , the slob relative who seems to bring problems wherever he goes . 
in vegas vacation clark griswold ( chase ) decides to take the family on vacation to las vegas so that he and wife ellen ( d'angelo ) can renew their wedding vows . 
it is at this point when comedy is supposed to ensue . 
apparently the filmmakers thought that putting the griswolds into las vegas would be so funny on its own that they wouldn't bother to write any jokes into the script . 
at least that's the way it looks when watching this turkey . 
about half way through vegas vacation i began to have serious doubts as to whether there would actually be a single laugh in the entire film , since there had been none up to that point . 
by the end of the movie i had actually snickered a couple of times , and i had smiled at a couple of gags . 
i might add that none of the funny ( and i use the term loosely ) moments came as a result of anything chase , d'angelo or quaid were involved in . 
they might as well have stayed home for as much as they contributed to this film . 
the two best things in this movie were ethan embry and marisol nichols as the griswold kids , who manage to have a couple of their own adventures . 
rusty becomes a vegas high roller , providing most of the film's best moments . 
every time chase and quaid were involved in a gag , it just made it more and more apparent that they should have stopped this series after the third film . 
which brings me to the best moment of the film . 
the griswolds are driving down the highway and holiday road ( the theme from the original vacation ) begins to play . 
christie brinkley and her red ferrari ( also from the first movie ) drive by . 
it was a cute moment , but all it really did was remind me just how funny the first film had been , and just how far that this series has fallen . 
too bad . 
burnt money is the perfect festival film . 
it will show once or twice , and then no one , thankfully , will ever have to hear from it again . 
this film from the seattle international film festival 2001's emerging masters series is easily one of the year's worst . 
billed as a gay `bonnie and clyde' , this gritty film from director marcelo pi ? eyro has its only highlight in a well-designed title sequence . 
two gay lovers get involved in a bank robbery that makes a gang leader , whose plan they screwed up , angry . 
this causes the gang leader to send his boys out to get the gay guys , one of whom may not actually be gay . 
hiding out in a prostitute's apartment , the two men must fight off police and gang members in a very long showdown for the movie's conclusion . 
if caught , they risk losing all the money , and their love . 
as an added emotional bonus , one of the gay men is dying . 
or something like that . 
everything that happens is so quick and confusing i was completely lost . 
clarity isn't exactly this movie's striving virtue , so it was a little hard to pick up . 
not much could have really happened though . 
the main events in this long two-hour film are explicit homosexual and heterosexual sex , graphic drug use , extreme violence , and strong language . 
lots of explicit material is never a bad thing when there's a reason , but there's no purpose to anything in this film . 
most of the sex and violence scenes come off as silly , while the heavy drug use comes off as ridiculous and depressing . 
it appears pi ? eyro ( who co-wrote with marcelo figueras , from a novel by ricardo piglia ) purposefully adds more blood and lovemaking for his own amusement . 
he makes the actors as sweaty and dirty as possible , makes them snort cocaine , gives them guns and condoms , and lets them go . 
burnt money is pointless . 
the performances are bad . 
it tries to thrill and shock , but only causes boredom . 
god forbid it will ever get a distributor . 
another disappointing film from this year's so-called emerging masters series . 
pass on by . 
claire danes , giovanni ribisi , and omar epps make a likable trio of protagonists , but they're just about the only palatable element of the mod squad , a lame-brained big-screen version of the 70s tv show . 
the story has all the originality of a block of wood ( well , it would if you could decipher it ) , the characters are all blank slates , and scott silver's perfunctory action sequences are as cliched as they come . 
by sheer force of talent , the three actors wring marginal enjoyment from the proceedings whenever they're on screen , but the mod squad is just a second-rate action picture with a first-rate cast . 
the haunting , a film so confusing that it forgets the true meaning of a horror film : to scare us . 
if you've ever seen a movie , which you probably have considering you are on this website , you should know about all of the trivia they post before a movie . 
they have things like illustrations and you have to guess the movie or facts about the film . 
but , the one i always like are the &quot ; other name&quot ; joke that try and rename a particular film . 
for instance , the one playing before the haunting had different titles for the film , small soldiers . 
they had titles like little infantry and can i get those fatigues in a smaller size ? 
well , after seeing the haunting , i had a few particular names for it as well . 
unfortunately , i can only post one of them , otherwise , i'd be getting some pretty angry e-mails from overprotective mothers . 
that title would be the confusing . 
ok , that is a pretty bad title , but it fits this film perfectly . 
it basically serves up no purpose , and combined with dry dialogue and a boring and confusing plot , it completes the formula for a cinematic bomb . 
liam neeson once again gets wrapped up in a film without any depth , but at least the phantom menace was exciting and had some depth . 
the haunting is nothing but trash , but unfortunately , will still make a boatload of money . 
before i rant and rave about how bad this film is , let me point out the few , and i stress the word few , bright spots in this film . 
first , the house is great- looking . 
it looks beautiful , but this is also a dark spot . 
it looks so great that it is hard to be frightened by it . 
this is something that rears its ugly head at all points of the film . 
things look so great , that you are looking on in awe instead of being scared straight . 
haunted house films have to contain one element to even be slightly successful and that is being eerie . 
the hill house is not eerie . 
it is beautiful , but not the least bit frightening . 
ever heard of lili taylor ? 
before this film i did not , but i am glad that i do now . 
she gives the only satisfactory performance in the film . 
despite the dry dialogue and boring/confusing concept , she manages to light up the screen every time she appears , but unfortunately , her co-stars are usually following right behind . 
owen wilson , who plays luke , is the only other cast member even close to giving an admirable performance , other then taylor . 
he is basically there for the comic relief , and his character development is poor in all other areas . 
all of the characters are desperately underdeveloped . 
wilson had potential as luke , but it seems they just needed him to add a few laughs . 
liam neeson and catherine zeta-jones suffer from the dialogue and plot and should not have been in this film . 
their characters must suffer from wicked mood swings because in each scene they turn from ruthless to compassionate to scared to brave and whatnot . 
they just are not believable and this is the final nail in the haunting's coffin . 
the plot is terrible . 
the opening scene of the film is very important , but the director makes it too obvious by getting close-ups of all the things that will play a major role in the end of the film . 
as i sat through the film , i kept wondering what this film was trying to accomplish . 
nell , lili taylor's character , goes from the hunted to the savior . 
it makes no sense and the director gives the audience no reasoning for the ridiculous changes that take place in the film . 
he forces the viewer to make various assumptions and does not give any in-depth information . 
for instance , the beginning of the film gives us a sense of why nell is getting involved in the program . 
but , we get zilch for the other four . 
plus , two of them get wiped out in the first ten minutes . 
and the worst part : most horror films have killings . 
for some reason , they kill off luke at the end of the film . 
no reason whatsoever , just off with his head , literally . 
overall , the haunting is the epitome of a bad movie . 
bad plot , confusing storyline and a waste of good talent . 
hopefully , liam neeson can rebound and get into a good film and be used to his full potential . 
hopefully , lili taylor will be recognized for doing such a great job in such a bad film . 
and hopefully , other horror films , such as the blair witch project and the haunting of hill house , will not be as bad as this one . 
in 1989 , director edward zwick began his career with the powerful civil war drama , " glory , " but since then , he has made continuous disappointments , to me at least , with 1994's " legends of the fall , " and 1996's " courage under fire . " 
those two films weren't bad , just not very good , but with zwick's latest film , " the siege , " he has finally made one . 
 " the siege , " is a modern-day action-thriller that focuses on terrorism that is sweeping through new york city . 
investigating the matter is fbi agents anthony hubbard ( denzel washington ) and frank haddad ( tony shalhoub ) , who are first hit by the ordeal when a city bus explodes with several innocent people on it . 
later , a bomb goes off in a broadway theater , killing even more . 
they soon meet cia operative elise kraft ( annette bening ) , who may very well hold the key to the identity of the arab terrorist . 
there are some movies that simply don't need to be made , and , " the siege " may very well be one of them . 
oh , sure , zwick thinks he is making a " meaningful " action film , since he has added lots of exposition scenes in which the audience is basically lectured on the horrors of terrorism , but what he really has made is actually no more substantial than , say , " die hard , " which also starred bruce willis . 
this time , willis is horribly wasted as a general of the u . s . army , who puts a state of martial law over nyc during the climax . 
whatever points , " the siege , " earnestly tried to make , were obviously lost in the translation from page to screen , or maybe , zwick never really had anything serious to say in the first place . 
the role of the arab community is offensively stereotypical , just as women were in the recent , " john caprenter's vampires , " by placing them all in the category of " bad guys . " 
 " the siege , " contains three fine actors---washington , bening , and shalhoub---but washington is stuck with a character that contains not an ounce of even remote development . 
bening has slightly more to do , and has an intriguing character to work with , while shalhoub pretty much steals the show , even though , again , he has no real character . 
by the climax of , " the siege , " with washington giving a sermon to willis on the so-called " message " of the story , i felt like i had wandered into a sequel to , " on deadly ground , " in which steven seagal gave a 10-minute speech at the end about preserving the environment . 
 " the siege " is constantly heavy-handed , not entertaining or insightful , and just goes to prove that not even the best actors can save a film that lacks a satisfactory screenplay . 
i guess that if a very wild bachelor party had gone really bad , there would be broken furniture , traces of smack and cocaine on the floor , and a dead prostitute in the bathroom . 
i guess that if a movie had also gone really bad , there might be the same elements present . 
coincidence ? 
poor kyle ( a meek looking jon favreau ) . . . he is about to marry his radiant fiancee , laura ( cameron diaz ) . 
but before he exchanges his vows , he embarks to las vegas with his friends for one last blowout . 
but this bachelor party has gone about as bad as it could possibly get . 
the prostitute has met a horrible , though accidental death , and drugs are everywhere . 
the five friends agree that there is enough bad evidence here that will send them to jail for a very long time . 
a surprisingly calm robert boyd ( christian slater ) , who looks like he was groomed to make nefarious decisions , ponders their dilemma for a few minutes before deciding that the best thing to do is to bury the body in the desert where she'll never be found . 
although they stomach the gruesome deed of getting rid of the body ( which also disturbingly involves dismantling the body using power saws in order to stuff it into suitcases ) , when they return from their trip , guilt and paranoia begins to set in which slowly consumes some of the five friends . 
one is adam ( daniel stern ) he grows increasingly agitated . 
whenever people look at his van or whenever a cop glances his way , his blood pressure increases . 
or that just may be because of his dysfunctional family . 
another is michael , who was actually responsible for her death . 
he tries to bury his feelings , but the burden of guilt begins to affect his judgment as well . 
boyd is the ? doer' of the group . 
seemingly suffering from a long psychosis , when he feels as if his secret is about to be exposed , he is apt to take extreme measures to cover up his tracks . 
kyle just hopes that his wedding will live up to laura's demanding expectations . 
then , there's moore ( leland orser ) who speaks 5 lines and walks around with a puzzled look on his face . 
the problem with this reprehensible movie is that it wants to be a cruel comedy , but it presents things in a manner that just aren't funny . 
drugs , mutilation , and killing your own friends isn't something to be laughed at . 
as a straight psychological drama , i could see how it might have worked , as each one tried to maneuver and overcome the weight of their own guilt in their own sometimes-sick ways . 
but this movie insults us by assuming that we could simply discard our values for 2 hours . 
if you do like this movie , i don't think that i want to know you . 
i did find slater a convincing leader who sways his friends to choose not the right thing but the ? smart play . ' 
and diaz adds some brightness to this film as a wedding-needing fiancee . 
but her talents are essentially wasted here . 
it's obvious that the film maker is trying to strike a certain tone . 
but the way that he chooses to do it is tasteless . 
do not make a very bad decision by seeing this film . 
i had been looking forward to this film since i heard about it early last year , when matthew perry had just signed on . 
i'm big fan of perry's subtle sense of humor , and in addition , i think chris farley's on-edge , extreme acting was a riot . 
so naturally , when the trailer for " almost heroes " hit theaters , i almost jumped up and down . 
a soda in hand , the lights dimming , i was ready to be blown away by farley's final starring role and what was supposed to be matthew perry's big breakthrough . 
i was ready to be just amazed ; for this to be among farley's best , in spite of david spade's absence . 
i was ready to be laughing my head off the minute the credits ran . 
sadly , none of this came to pass . 
the humor is spotty at best , with good moments and laughable one-liners few and far between . 
perry and farley have no chemistry ; the role that perry was cast in seems obviously written for spade , for it's his type of humor , and not at all what perry is associated with . 
and the movie tries to be smart , a subject best left alone when it's a farley flick . 
the movie is a major dissapointment , with only a few scenes worth a first look , let alone a second . 
perry delivers not one humorous line the whole movie , and not surprisingly ; the only reason the movie made the top ten grossing list opening week was because it was advertised with farley . 
and farley's classic humor is widespread , too . 
almost heroes almost works , but misses the wagon-train by quite a longshot . 
guys , let's leave the exploring to lewis and clark , huh ? 
stick to " tommy boy " , and we'll all be " friends " . 
the original babe gets my vote as the best family film since the princess bride , and it's sequel has been getting rave reviews from most internet critics , both siskel and ebert sighting it more than a month ago as one of the year's finest films . 
so , naturally , when i entered the screening room that was to be showing the movie and there was nary another viewer to be found , this notion left me puzzled . 
it is a rare thing for a children's movie to be praised this highly , so wouldn't you think that every parent in the entire city would be flocking with their kids to see this supposedly " magical " piece of work ? 
a tad bewildered , but pleased to not have to worry about screaming kids and other disruptions that commonly go along with family films , i sat back for 97 minutes and watched intently and with a very open mind , having great expectations for the film . 
looking back , i should have taken the hint and left right when i entered the theater . 
believe me ; i wanted to like babe : pig in the city . 
the plot seemed interesting enough ; after the events that took place in the original , babe the sheep-pig has become a legitimate national phenomenon . 
but after a fateful encounter with a water well , arthur hogget ( james cromwell , who the movie could have used alot more of ) has been rendered bed-ridden for a number of weeks and the farm begins to go under financially . 
the only solution that his wife ( magda szubanski , going from delightfully charming to downright annoying ) can come up with is to make an appearance with their new celebrity pet at a national fair ( i think ) and to use the money they earn to pay off the bank ( set aside for the moment the fact that they could get more than enough cash from donations if they just made their case known to the public ) . 
problem is , the fair is being held in the middle of the dreaded " city " , a completely foreign place to both the pig and his companion . 
setting the main plot in motion , mrs . hogget and babe travel to the unnamed city and shack up with a sweet lady who just happens to love to help animals , despite the law that you cannot keep them in hotels . 
it is here that we meet an array of eccentric characters , the most memorable being the family of chimps led by steven wright . 
here is where the film took a wrong turn . 
up until this point , i had being having a rather enjoyable experience . 
the beginning featured some smart writing and funny situations involving the farm animals from the first one and even an inspired moment at the airport where mrs . hogget is accused of smuggling drugs . 
unfortunately , the story wears thin as we are introduced to a new set of animals that reside at the hotel , none of them being even one-tenth as interesting as the characters from the previous babe . 
the main topic of discussion surrounding babe : pig in the city is the question of whether or not it is to dark and disturbing for small children , and i believe it is . 
at one point , a dog is hung from his neck and slowly starts to drown . 
at other times , we are treated to surrealistic flash-backs to mrs . hogget's full cavity search at the airport . 
in fact , the overall tone of the movie is rather bleak and depressing . 
however , that is , as they say , neither here nor there because kids will probably not like the movie anyway . 
the animal characters and their plights were simply not intriguing enough to sustain my interest for an hour and a half , let alone entertain a child . 
another problem i found with the film was it's sudden change of pacing and tone near the end of the story . 
if you're going to make a darker and more sinister sequel , fine . 
it may not be my cup of tea , but at least it is a noble ambition . 
but to go from the downbeat feel of the rest of the movie and all of a sudden have slapstick finale with mrs . hogget swinging from wall-to-wall of a ballroom in elastic overalls ? 
it just didn't feel right and was more painful to watch than it was funny or entertaining , and the same goes for the rest of the movie . 
to put it bluntly , ed wood would have been proud of this . 
a totally ridiculous plot is encompassed with bad humor , hokey drama , zero logic and a crap screenplay . 
also , a beautifully anti-climactic ending . 
not to say it didn't look intriguing when i saw the previews . 
so much for truth in advertising . 
roland emmerich , who's later " independence day " would look like " the 400 blows " compared to this , co-writed and directed this inane sci-fi film which uses the cliche of there being some connection between eqypt and aliens . 
in a useless opening sequence , men find a stone in 1914 with hieroglyphics on it . 
it wouldn't be till present day ( '94 ) till they would actually figure it out . 
they're decipherer ? 
a slightly-neurotic scientist ( nice twist ) , dr . dan jackson ( james spader , doing his best outside of erotic thrillers and some indy fare ) who's life sucks so much that people walk out of his lectures after the third word . 
why do they use him to decipher what no one else could ? 
so there is a hokey ending ! 
duh ! 
he figures it out in about a minute . 
yea . 
and then they get a suicidal colonel or something , " jack " o'neill ( kurt russel , with his wyat earp locks in the beginning then a flat-top that would make howie long snap into a fetal position ) . 
why a suicidal colonel ? 
for the ending ! 
you'll get the hang of this . 
they open the stargate , a bunch of them go through it with a bomb to blow it up if they find anything bad . 
after an overdone special effects thing , they're . . . inside a goddam pyramid . 
so they went to egypt , right ? 
wrong . 
they're on another planet that was filmed in egypt . 
they discover a cilvilization ruled by ra , the sun god ( the androginous jaye davidson , with a voice modifier to make him sound like barry white with asthma ) , and there are fights , explosions and a kiss between two people . 
yea . 
also melodrama , stupidity , hokey scenes and a bizarre language . 
an anti-climactic ending ends with stupid lines ( " say hello to king tut , asswhole ! " 
- the quintessential line , lemme tell ya ) and some convenient pesudo-pseudo-pseudo-character development . 
by the end , you just wanna go home and watch , i don't know , the " outer limits " or something . 
the script's terrible . 
the special effects are okay , but nothing great . 
the story's so weak that it's almost opaque . 
the whole experience just isn't worth it unless you're so bored that you'd consider watching a " full house " marathon . . . or 
this . 
i'd pick this , obviously , but still , it's just not fun at all . 
and i can't wait for it to premier on mst3k . 
i wonder if budget is at all a criterion for whether or not a movie can be considered an exploitation flick . 
take the professional , for example . 
it boasts extremely glossy cinematography , a couple of recognizable name actors , and a couple of fairly impressive explosions . 
it's also basically about violence and cheap titilation , and features a central relationship between a middle-aged man and a twelve-year-old girl with a decidedly ambiguous sexual dimension . 
the professional is all over the map , and its pretensions of being about anything more than its most unpleasant elements simply make it all the more unpleasant . 
the professional of the title is a new york hit man named leon ( jean reno ) , brutally efficient but also very isolated . 
one day he is forced to let someone into his life when a girl from his apartment building knocks on his door . 
her name is matilda ( natalie portman ) , and the rest of her family has just been killed by crooked and very wired d . e . a . 
agent norman stansfield ( gary oldman ) after matilda's father tried to rip him off . 
leon reluctantly takes matilda in , then begins to teach her his profession when she says that she wants to avenge the murder of her young brother . 
the two become closer , which makes them all the more vulnerable when stansfield learns that they know too much , and sets out to eliminate them both . 
writer/director luc besson has gone this route before with his popular french import la femme nikita , a slick potboiler about a female assassin . 
there is no question that besson can make a great * looking * film ; with the assistance of cinematographer thierry arbogast , he has created a film chock full of moody close-ups and evocative lighting . 
but beneath the shiny wrapper , there isn't nearly as much going on as besson would like us to believe . 
the relationship between leon and matilda never clicks because neither one is given a character to develop . 
leon is mostly a collection of quirky traits , all intended to show us that for a hired killer , he's really not so bad a guy : he drinks lots of milk , takes meticulous care of a potted plant , and enjoys gene kelly movies . 
jean reno succeeds at giving leon a haunted and desperate quality , but he never makes an emotional connection to matilda . 
natalie portman is all wrong for a part that called for a much grittier quality , but she doesn't have too much to work with , either . 
besson would have been better served spending more time trying to bring his characters to life , and less on feeble attempts at humor which are often embarrassing . 
a silly game between leon and matilda involving celebrity impersonations is completely out of place , as is a scene where matilda shocks a hotel manager by announcing that leon is her lover ; character is thoroughly sacrificed for a cheap gag . 
gary oldman's entire part is something of a cheap gag , wild-eyed and way over the top , but at least he is interesting to watch . 
there isn't a real person to be found anywhere in the professional , which isn't always a problem in an action thriller , except that this one is trying to pass itself off as something more . 
a more disconcerting problem with the professional is that it plays around with the sexuality of a twelve-year-old in a really distasteful way . 
there were only two real choices for dealing with that component of leon and matilda's relationship : confront it head on , or ignore it entirely . 
but besson flirts and teases the audience with the idea that he's going to show them a forbidden love story , while choosing simply to focus his camera on portman's rear end and dress her in skimpy clothing . 
this is to say nothing of the questionable decision to make it look like quality paternal time when leon is teaching a child to load a 9mm pistol , or the blood which is spilled aplenty . 
a great deal of the time , the professional is just plain sleazy , and all the soft filters in the world can't disguise that fact . 
one of these days , i'll make good on my promise never to rent another abel ferrara movie . 
king of new york and body snatchers notwithstanding ( and bad lieutenant is only fit for a single , emotive viewing ) , his exploitation flicks have fallen into a rut of hoary art-house trappings . 
it's a perfume-drenched , coke-addled visit to the seedy pornography shop , where beautiful models ( no , hookers -- no , courtesans ) usher you through the silk curtains . 
ferrara's only consistently smart move has been casting christopher walken over and over again , since walken can make a good movie great and a loathsome movie durable whenever he's onscreen . 
his 8-minute scene in the addiction is the saving grace of that otherwise abysmal , unwatchable , and pretentious failure . 
when he starts talking about his vampiric bowel movements , or questions whether lili taylor has ever read naked lunch , there's a much-needed dose of humor in an otherwise terminally unfunny affair . 
you know those gothic club kids who are too cool to smile and let you know they're actually having fun ? 
the addiction is that movie . 
walken , sadly , does not appear in the blackout . 
the central role of matty , a junkie film star whose lightning paced hollywood life among the beautiful people is inevitably leading to his destruction , is played by matthew modine ( who takes what he can get after cutthroat island ) . 
much like the protagonists of michelangelo antonioni's terminally bored cultural elite , matty is involved in a bitter pill " relationship " with high fashioned model annie ( at least i think she's a model . ) 
matty's lady is played by french actress b ? atrice dalle , arrested twice for cocaine possession during filming of the blackout -- not that you needed to know that , but it lends credence to the idea that ferrara's entire oeuvre has been filmed in a fucking blackout . 
no kidding . 
requiem for a dream has nothing on the junkie presentations seen in ferrara's movies and his controversial urban lifestyle . 
matty and annie struggle over her decision to have an abortion without consulting him . 
no doubt , he was off chasing the dragon . 
in his despair , matty indulges in a chemical induced weekend of debauchery , tooling around the streets of miami with video filmmaker mickey wayne ( dennis hopper , in full " dirty ol' man " mold smacking models on the ass and telling them to spread their legs . 
wider ! ) 
toward the end of the night , they pick up a teenage waitress also named annie ( sarah lassez ) , start shooting a hastily improvised sexual scene , then matty thankfully blacks out . 
something happened that night which haunts him throughout the rest of the movie , and it's exactly what you think it was . 
suffice to say , there's some confusion over whether he killed annie one or annie two , or anyone at all . 
the blackout is typical ferrara : no plot to speak of , plenty of raunch , and horribly vogue images of matthew modine downing a bottle of jack daniels and a beer while wrapping himself in a see-through curtain in his hotel room by the sea , by the sea , by the beautiful sea . 
cinematographer ken kelsch finds inconsistent glory in alternating gorgeous painterly sunsets with docu-style sleaze ( and we're back to dennis hopper leering at girls in bathing suits . 
 " yeah ! ! ! 
yeah ! ! ! 
arrrghhh ! " 
says mr . hopper . 
dirty old sod . ) 
it's compulsive viewing in a tacky sort of way , leading to a ridiculous climax where modine seizes control of his destiny . 
how's that for cryptic ? 
never fear -- ferrara finds time for some female full frontal nudity to remind us what he's all about . 
i can picture it now . 
 " take off yer clothes , kid -- it's essential to depict the inner maelstrom of my central protagonist , and you're his visual id . 
you're the soul , the heart , the bloodstream of the picture . 
take it off ! 
take it all off ! ! ! 
ha ha ha ! " 
friggin' vampire . 
yeah , you , ferrara . 
a final word about matthew modine : he's actually a fine actor when properly cast , but there's something too squeaky-clean in his demeanor . 
he's ideally suited for sarcastic men in tightly controlled situations , such as his private joker in full metal jacket or the time-bomb nebbish in short cuts ( who is every bit as superb as julianne moore in that famous scene , though no one seems to notice him ) . 
[he was in that scene ? 
-ed . ] 
here , he's asked to let it all hang out , sporting a three-day stubble and oily bangs . 
he throws around furniture like stanley kowalski , but it's somehow lacking . 
modine lacks the feral intensity of brando , entirely miscast in ferrara's flesh fair . 
better luck next time , matt . 
someday , you'll be forgiven for cutthroat island , which wasn't really your fault in the first place . 
maybe atom egoyan will find a place for you somewhere , and all will once again be well in your world . 
making your first feature film ain't easy . 
assemble a decent , if not , strong cast , as writer/director robert moresco has done with one eyed king , and you're already ahead of the game . 
but rehash old plot lines , tired dialogue , and standard clich ? s , and a well-intentioned effort such as this one could jeopardize your chance at a second feature film . 
how many more movies do we need about a rough neighborhood full of lifelong friends hopelessly turned to crime or worse ? 
the enormous catalog of such movies might dissuade a filmmaker from making yet another , but here we have it . 
again . 
five irish kids in nyc's hell's kitchen make an overemotional pact over some stolen rings on an anonymous rooftop . 
with teary music . 
and slow motion . 
in the film's first scene . 
the kids grow up to be fairly worthless adults , unable or unwilling to make their way out of the heat of the kitchen . 
leading the clueless pack is william baldwin as a good-hearted guy who watches out for his buddies and is in tight with local mob head armand assante . 
i'd like to say that his character gets involved over his head in some sort of blah , blah , blah , but all we seem to get are little tastes of possible plot points . 
he's concerned about buddy jason gedrick's heroin abuse . 
he sticks up for jim breuer after he impregnates baldwin's character's sister . 
he looks into who might be pushing the most moronic-looking counterfeit cash ever made ( a genuinely funny touch ) . 
but none of this ever really amounts to anything . 
it seems that moresco's greater concern is to provide that intangible " slice of life " , that flavor of the neighborhood that everyone's been trying to evoke since scorsese's early work . 
so , we get the drunk guys , hugging and singing together at the local bar , to prove to us that they really love each other . 
 ( do people actually do this ! ? ) 
we get a lot of tough street talk -- usually mumbled for effect -- and a whole lot of the f-word , whether it sounds like it fits or not . 
we also get a handful of good actors in small roles that seem to lack purpose . 
bruno kirby , chazz palminteri , you know , guys you've seen in movies just like this one before . 
assante is intelligent casting as the man that everyone fears , and baldwin's performance is adequate , but most of the rest of the cast jump into the tough guy persona so thoroughly that it's almost funny . 
moresco , a theater guy and sometimes tv writer ( including the series falcone ) , obviously labored over this one as anyone might a first child , but the content is probably too personal . 
as a result , the movie's style is heavy-handed , in need of a considerable amount of toning down . 
nearly every time an action by the grown up gang recalls something they did as kids , moresco reminds us -- boy does he remind us . 
with slow dissolves to the earlier scene , running in slow motion , complete with dialogue from the present , just in case we don't comprehend the link to the past . 
moresco needs to either trust his audience's intelligence , or have more faith in his own presentation rather than beat us over the head with it . 
his next project should have a little more personal distance , and a lot more subtlety . 
if he actually gets that chance . 
reviewed as part of our 2001 boston film festival coverage ( feature story coming soon ) . 
whenever u . s . government starts meddling into other countries' affairs , under the pretext of supporting human rights or preventing political , religious or ethnic persecution , the other side is ready to use mantra that says " look who's talking ! 
what have you done to the indians ? " 
however , even the americans themselves are ready to use that dark chapter of their own national history when it suits their purposes . 
hollywood is just another example , with its revisionist westerns , made in early 1990s . 
those movies tried to exploit the emerging wave of political correctness , coinciding with the 500th anniversary of columbus' discovery of america . 
one of such examples is geronimo : an american legend , 1993 western directed by walter hill , film that deals with one of the last conflicts between american natives and white settlers . 
the hero of the film is geronimo ( played by wes studi ) , leader of apaches , fierce warrior tribe that used to give hard time to white settlers during the second half of 19th century . 
when the movie begins , in 1885 , geronimo and his apaches made peace with u . s . government and try to live peacefully in arizona reservation . 
however , broken promises , injustice and violence against his people would make geronimo restless . 
with not more 30 or so of his followers , he escapes reservation and begins guerrilla campaign . 
general crook ( gene hackman ) , commander of u . s . army forces , respects geronimo and knows that even his 5 , 000 force isn't enough to catch geronimo in the great spaces of the american southwest . 
instead , he turns to people who are more experienced with apaches - lt . charles gatewood ( jason patric ) and indian hunter al sieber ( robert duvall ) . 
together with young lt . britton davis ( matt damon ) they would begin mission aimed at capturing geronimo . 
geronimo : an american legend , like many movies made under the shadow of political correctness , try to tell the tale about oppressed minorities , but instead the real subject is the bad conscience of the oppressors . 
so , the story about geronimo is told from the perspective of his enemies . 
almost all of them happen to be his greatest admirers and use every opportunity to express how sorry they feel for having to fight him and his people . 
although such elements of john millius' screenplay do indeed have some basis in history , they harm the story of geronimo . 
to be honest , walter hill does try to make geronimo the real hero of the film , but the movie segments that deal with the plight of apaches and the uprising are given too little time . 
instead , they turn out to be nothing more than the back story for rather uninteresting adventure story of gatewood and his band . 
to make even worse , hill has some real problems with pacing and style , and in the end we have impression that we are watching two films badly edited into one - story about geronimo and story about his pursuers . 
the movie should have been better if it turned to geronimo's life before and after his last uprising , in many ways more interesting than the story about gatewood . 
the difference between those segments could be observed through the different quality of acting . 
wes studi , cherokee actor who was so impressive as magua in the last of the mohicans , was perfect choice for geronimo , not only because he resembles geronimo , but because he induces a lot of passion in his role . 
contrary to him , we have disinterested actors who sleepwalk through the roles of his white enemies . 
while this could be expected from someone like jason patric , it is shame when we have veterans like gene hackman or robert duvall . 
even hill's directing is bellow expectations - battle scenes are too short and , like in many of his late films , force viewers to ask what had happened to the great action director of 1970s . 
even his old associate , music composer ry cooder , disappoints , with the score that shifts between indian motives and classic . 
on the other hand , photography by lloyd ahern ii , with the use of red lenses , gives somewhat dreamy atmosphere , ideal for this movie that was supposed to be melancholic epic . 
all in all , compared with some of the hollywood's examples of political correctness , this film isn't so bad , but we are left with the unpleasant impression that it could have been better . 
aspiring broadway composer robert ( aaron williams ) secretly carries a torch for his best friend , struggling actor marc ( michael shawn lucas ) . 
the problem is , marc only has eyes for " perfect 10s , " which the geeky , insecure robert certainly is not . 
meanwhile , marc's spoiled ( hetero ) female roommate , cynthia ( mara hobel ) , spends her days lying about their apartment and harrassing magazine editor tina brown . 
writer-director victor mignatti's " very romantic comedy " ( as the ad campaign states ) is supposed to be ( pardon the pun ) a gay ol' romp , but it's hard to have much fun with these annoying , self-absorbed characters and their shallow personal problems : marc and cynthia have sitcom-level domestic " crises " ( such as trying to kill bugs--how hilarious ) ; robert and marc go to acting class ( how riveting ) ; the zaftig cynthia goes on eating binges ( how original ) . 
but more than anything else , the three whine . 
constantly . 
marc whines about his turbulent romance with an apparent " 10 , " david ( hugh panaro ) , the hunky musician from across the way ; robert whines about not being able to find the right guy ; cynthia whines about having to find a job ( horrors ) . 
the terrible trio whine their way to a happy ending that is wholly undeserved . 
add in overly broad performances and some laughable lipsynching by panaro , and you're left with one astonishing piece of cinematic damage . 
 " easely one of the worst films of the year . . " 
with the millenium just around the corner , hollywood is playing with our insecurities concerning the biggest event of this century . 
this time it is arnold schwartzenegger against the powers of evil . 
the result is somewhat predictable . 
i didn't have high hopes about arnold's " much anticipated " return to the big screen . 
schwarzenegger fans will probably be pleased , action lovers won't be bored , and the catholic league will be angry . 
everyone else will see 'end of days' for what it is : a deliciously bad motion picture . 
think of it as hollywood's own y2k bug . 
did you know that if you turn the three diabolical numbers 666 you'll get 999 , as in 1999 ? 
yes , you better believe it . . satan is here on earth , working on his latest project -- the end of days . 
this time it is gabriel burne who gets the privilege to play lucifer and , although not al pacino , he is fun to behold . 
he coolly strolls through manhattan in the borrowed body of an investment banker , wreaking , as they say , havoc . 
the way it works is he smirks and something explodes . 
before the stroke of the new millennium he's got to find and impregnate a certain woman in order to climb out from under a heavenly curse as spelled out in the book of revelations . 
only schwarzenegger's cop attached to an anti-terrorist unit can stop him . 
films like this has one serious weakness -- logic . 
no matter how you twist the " plot " , you'll find it incredibly stupid ( even for a schwartzenegger movie ! ) . 
the incredible fact is that such directors never learn . 
after thousands of headless productions , this theme has become one big clich ? . 
here the devil looks more like a sex addicted maniac that has just got out of a mental institution . 
he is walking around n . y . , blowing everything up and killing everyone that gets in a 5 meter radius . 
all he wants is the girl , that is somehow special . 
but schwartzenegger is more clever than he looks , he has hidden her in a church , where satan dare not enter . 
so the evil one is forced to seduce the good cop in order to get the valuable information : " you can have your wife and daughter back . . i 
can give you happiness that you can only dream of . . just 
give me the address . . " 
indeed with a script like that , you could make a wonderful parody , but unfortunately the director is taking this subject very seriously , attempting to create a provoking an dramatic thriller . 
and for you who have awaited arnold swartzenegger's comeback , will not be very satisfied . 
we've not seen him in a while . 
that's because he didn't have a worthy opponent . 
he has battled nuclear terrorists on earth and power mad conspirators on mars . 
he has taken on alien predators in the darkest reaches of the jungle and morphing cyberkillers that seemingly nothing can stop . 
so , after all those fights , what's left for arnold schwarzenegger ? 
how about satan ? 
in my opinion , he has never quite overcome his first role as the deadly robot in cameron's " terminator " . 
and that is schwartzenegger's strength -- muscles and no emotions . 
here he tries to achieve an artistic level , moving towards the oscar . 
this is called " an adult turn " if successful and " a flop " if unsuccessful . 
make a wild guess ! 
his character has lost his wife and daughter and has serious drinking problems . 
this requires at least some acting skills . 
regrettably , the only thing convincing about old arnold is his muscles . 
the rest of the cast are struggling with their so called characters . 
the movie is otherwise technically impressive , with a solid cinematography and fine lighting . 
but the movie doesn't serve neither as a serious thriller ( because of its stupidity ) nor as comic entertainment ( because of its serious tone ) . 
the only real comic relief in this film is when swartzenegger tries to cry . 
the action sequences are all recycled and the effects are everything but spectacular . 
so i really have a hard time recommending this film to somebody . 
unless you are a die-hard schwartzenegger fan , stay away . 
as for schwarzenegger , he'll be back . 
these days , people have rather short attention span and hardly anything can satisfy them for the long run . 
1970s nostalgia is already wearing off , and now , people are becoming more and more interested in 1980s . 
few years in the future , early 1990s are going to be regarded as next golden age of nostalgia . 
however , i doubt that people are going to be very nostalgic about the hollywood products of that period . 
one of the reason would surely be films like national lampoon's loaded weapon 1 , that , in many ways , symbolise the biggest problem of contemporary american film industry - lack of originality and ideas . 
being made as some kind of parody on lethal weapon series , this film pairs two l . a . policemen - jack colt ( emilio estevez ) , burn-out alcoholic cop on the edge , and wes luger ( samuel l . jackson ) , by-the-book policeman , days away from retirement . 
two of them , following the murder of luger's ex- partner , must confront evil general mortars ( william shatner ) , crime lord who is going to flood the market with cocaine stashed in wilderness girl cookies . 
the authors of this films ( whose director , gene quintano , worked on such projects like third and fourth sequel of police academy ) lacked any original idea before they undertook the projects , and that reflects in the lack plot , characters , and , even original lines . 
the plot , or what goes for the plot in this movie , is nothing more than a series of gags that make laugh of some popular films made in previous few years ( apart from lethal weapon series , this film " borrows " its female lead from basic instinct ) . 
the best gags , are , same as with many other similar movies , shown in the trailers . 
the rest simply doesn't work . 
only those who used to watch a lot of hollywood products in that period would laugh . 
others would probably wince at the lameness of humour . 
some would be entertained by celebrity cameos that pop up every once in a while . 
but , at the end , spending hour and half in front of this disorganised mess of a movie is simply not worth the effort . 
the film was sometimes criticised for being the parody of a series that already had strong comic overtones . 
the authors of lethal weapon returned the favour by using the loaded weapon 1 joke in their fourth sequel . 
paul verhoeven , the dutch auteur who dragged his violent , sexually aggressive aesthetic into american film , has never been what i'd consider a thoughtful director ( though some of his films , notably starship troopers , have been lauded as artistic achievements ) , but he is the kind of hollywood film maker who's managed to , no matter what the budget , make his films distinctive and even sometimes smuggle stimulating themes into the lavish high concepts on which he toils . 
starship troopers was essentially a b-monster movie remake of his enthralling dutch war film soldier of orange ( a great film that's nearly impossible to find on video , yet showgirls is everywhere ) , in which he cast a troop of stunningly attractive mannequins ; the square jawed casper van dien and denise richards ( who may actually be 45% silicone ) , in what feels like an american propaganda picture set to monotonous scenes of graphic carnage . 
it's not a completely successful film , but as a failure it's certainly an interesting ( and mostly entertaining ) one . 
my favorite verhoeven films were the ones he made before he hit our shores ; spetters , a dark near pornographic coming of age film set within the sub-culture of drag racing and the aforementioned soldier of orange ( haven't yet gotten around to seeing the 4th man or turkish delight ) . 
i believe his best hollywood film to be robocop , a bleak super-hero satire with a robotic hero that's as touching as schwarzenegger's in t2 . 
that movie was violent but not in the overdone cartoonish manner of more recent verhoeven pics . 
its violence seemed to be there for a purpose , namely to create an atmosphere of unpredictable dread , not to simply titillate an attention deprived audience . 
there's a jaw-dropping scene within the first ten minutes of robocop wherein the lead villain toys with a cop before snuffing him . 
he tortures the officer by taking glee in his victim's every fearful tic . 
it's a startling moment of barbaric , maddening violence that effectively sets the tone for the film that could be designated as splatter punk-noir . 
in hollow man kevin bacon brutally slays a dog because it just won't shut up , he impales a co-worker , drowns another and so on . 
but why ? 
his character is introduced as a smug genius , the kind who's always impeccably dressed and races a sports car while generic rock tunes blare from his stereo for the world to hear , sort of like a scheming uber villain from dallas or melrose place , though once the character becomes invisible , this film has him pull a 180 shift into a psychotic movie monster . 
the kind who just won't die . 
hollow man's protagonists are the completely bland but beautiful scientist linda ( elizabeth shue , acting as if she were rebecca of sunnybrook farm ) and her lover , a hunk of beef scientist played by josh brolin who's saddled with the film's worst lines ( " i've lost cohesion again ! " ) . 
they're a typical aaron spelling couple , good-looking but as vacant as george w . bush's republican national convention speech ( i . e . 
bush referring to clinton ; " ? ? ? so much promise ? ? ? but to what end ? 
to what end ? " -- 
this actually got applause ! 
suddenly warren beatty doesn't look so absurd ) . 
the rest of the film's characters are all well past thirty , though act like annoying high school party animals insulting one and other with a series of strained one-liners ; is it just me or have labored insults become big budget hollywood's new character developing technique ? 
ahh , what a cynical time we live in ? ? ? 
as the picture opens we meet cain ( kevin bacon ) , an egocentric scientist working with the crew of aforementioned irritating scientists on a top secret ( so top secret the government has only provided them with a dilapidated warehouse in which to perform their extensive experimentation's ) project with the goal to make invisibility a possibility ( for what purpose is never hinted at ) . 
they've performed several experiments on animals and have nearly solved the quandary causing caine , in a twist worthy of the film's 1950's late show origins , to impulsively experiment on himself . 
caine neglects to let the pentagon in on his plans and somehow gets two of his co-workers to lie for him so the rest of the crew will think the pentagon gave the go ahead . 
our mad scientist is turned invisible ( after several fx-heavy complications ) , then he inexplicably ( it's hinted that the process of invisibility has made the animals into more savage creatures , but this is never explored , and if that was the case why the hell would anyone be stupid enough to test this out on a human ? ) 
begins raping , assaulting and murdering anyone he pleases , always with a lame wisecrack ready a la freddy krueger . 
it grows abundantly clear with each new release that it's verhoeven's films that have become hollow . 
like the rest , this one is cold , heartless , and full of contempt for humanity , but in addition to all that it lacks any trace of wit , insight and makes no statement other than " audiences will pay for anything these days " . 
it's an affront to anyone looking for something stimulating on an intellectual level , or even those hoping to spend a saturday night with a fun , thrill-a-minute ride . 
verhoeven has instead served up an utterly routine mad slasher flick with nobody to root for and no reason to care . 
the previews make hollow man look like an irresistible flick . 
how can one not have a good time at a film that utilizes state of the art fx to illustrate an invisible man getting down and dirty with his bad self ? 
a couple weeks ago , after seeing the trailer , a bunch of friends and i got into a long discussion of how invisible man flicks never go so far as to have the invisible individual indulging in their newfound ability . 
hollow man looked like the first film to do so and whoa , in a serious manner to boot . 
but oh yeah , it is directed by paul verhoven not atom egoyan or peter greenway . 
verhoeven delivers the sleazy " goods " , but not in a watchable or thrillingly disturbing manner , here it just feels icky and uncomfortable . 
the director keeps his camera trained at his nubile actresses , caressing their breasts with his lens all while faux-psycho music strains in the background . 
it's plainly obvious that verhoeven isn't exploring voyeurism ( like in the classic peeping tom ) but exploiting it and not even doing that very well . 
it's funny that with all the technology $90 million can get you verhoven is stuck at trying to figure out how to show a woman's naked breast manipulated by an invisible hand . 
most vexing is that the invisibility aspect is used simply as gimmick in yet another slasher movie wherein characters do stupid things just so the villain can pop up for more attacks . 
in fact it's largely irrelevant that bacon is invisible since , by the end , most of his potential victims don infer-red glasses that track his body heat . 
as in every mad slasher film we get the killers pov ( a scene where he spies on his neighbor while she undresses triggered unpleasant memories of slumber party massacre ) , and lots of scenes where people are unknowingly stalked . 
the film only provides one moment that i found genuinely creepy . 
it happens when a lab assistant ( kim dickens , who looks like she stepped out of playboy ) in the middle of a chit chat with an invisible bacon , suddenly pauses . 
 " are you looking at me ? " , she queries , obviously haunted . 
it's a little moment in a big film with nothing to offer but ground breaking special effects set to a plot that should have run its course by 1982 ( the apex of the mad slasher craze ) . 
those special effects are so stunning they alone keep this from being as bad as urban legend or i still know what you did last summer . 
and they're the only reason to check out hollow man , preferably as a mid-week bargain rental . 
you've been warned . 
but you probably won't listen , will you ? 
tis' a pity ? ? ? 
fact that charles bronson represents one of the most important movie icons of the 1980s represents one of the biggest and almost tragic ironies of that decade . 
tragedy lies in the fact that the icon status was earned less by quality of his work in movies , but the quantity . 
most of those movies were produced by cannon group , company led by israeli producers menahem golan and yoram globus . 
those two men probably thought that they could be the next roger corman , b- movie mentors of future hollywood legends . 
unfortunately , that didn't happened , and when cannon finally went bankrupt at the end of the decade , behind it stood the huge pile of cinematic garbage , that would require at least few centuries before it reaches the camp appeal . 
sadly for bronson , that garbage also contained numerous movies in which that capable character actor and action hero of the 1970s tried to raise their worth simply by being the main lead , and lowering his own reputation in process . 
on the other hand , bronson could take comfort in a fact that those movies were extremely popular , especially among the audience 3 or 4 times younger than bronson himself . 
one of such movies that seriously marred bronson's reputation is death wish 3 , third sequel in the series which began with death wish in 1974 . 
in the original movie , bronson played paul kersey , mild-mannered new york architect who turns into deadly street vigilante after his family fell victim to urban violence . 
that movie was far from masterpiece ; yet , in it the director michael winner was skillfully offering the cinematic remedy for very real disease of growing crime rates of the time ( on the same lines like siegel in dirty harry ) . 
unfortunately , six years later cannon group got rights to the character of paul kersey and began destroying it by pumping out sequels ; even the presence of its original director didn't stop the rapid decline of the quality . 
death wish 3 begins when kersey comes to visit an old friend , living in the urban wasteland of east new york , populated by young criminals and people too old or too poor to move out . 
before the reunion , kersey's friend falls victim to the street gang led by evil fraker ( played by gavan o'herlihy , probably the only noteworthy role in the film ) . 
kersey decides to avenge his death and slowly prepares for his crusade , while the police inspector shriker ( ed lauter ) , ants to use him as a secret weapon in his losing war against the urban crime . 
bronson , the main asset in this movie , plays the character who is nothing more than an efficient killing machine . 
although bronson's charisma does help in overcoming some implausibilities ( single man in his 60s and armed with a single pistol manages to wipe out dozens of opponents with superior firepower ) , the lack of emotions or bronson's own commitment could be seen in a very few lines spoken in a film . 
the movie authors were somewhat aware of that emotional shallowness , so they added romantic interest for their hero - public defender played by deborah raffin and conveniently terminated in order to give some more motives for kersey's crusade . 
on the other hand , emotions are much better played by confronting law-abiding , yet ethnically stereotyped citizens with their daily nemesis of street punks - ruthless enough to exercise their reign of terror on the entire city blocks , and stupid enough to be killed in droves by kersey . 
unfortunately , michael winner doesn't know how to work out the plot , and after torturing the viewers with mostly uninteresting characters and cliched and formulaic situations , ends this movie with a bang . 
the big showdown at the end - that turns east new york into the sarajevo-like battle zone - is probably the worst part of the movie , because of the poor editing and the cheap sets and props that give away the low budget . 
in short , this movie could be recommended only to the most fanatical charles bronson fans or for the people who are already desperate for 1980s nostalgia . 
 ( special note for trekkies : marina sirtis , the actress who played counsellor deanna troi in star trek : the next generation could be spotted in a small role of portorican wife ) . 
overblown remake of the 1963 robert wise film of the same name ( based on shirley jackson's novel " the haunting of hill house " ) stars lili taylor as one of three " lab rats " that participate in a supposed " insomnia " study being initiated by liam neeson . 
he is actually conducting a study on the causes of fear and why the human mind is still affected by it . 
he drags the test subjects out to a foreboding mansion where all types of " creepy " cgi effects scare the cast and try the audience's patience . 
i know this question has been posed before , but why do people keep remaking good movies ? 
the original was a great psychological horror film . 
this new version is dull and very decidedly not scary . 
in fact , i feel it is downright impossible to make a modern day pg-13 horror movie that is scary . 
unless you find obvious computer generated special effects frightening , then there's nothing in this film that will raise hackles . 
i nearly fell asleep twice during the film , and probably would have if they guy two rows behind me didn't seem to have such a personal relationship with the characters that he felt he needed to discuss every decision they made with them as the film progressed . 
it's sad to see such an amazing cast wasted so badly . 
owen wilson spends most of the film wandering the halls of the house , and the script does no justice to his wonderful comic ability . 
catherine zeta-jones ( always nice to look at ) is given the woefully underwritten role of a bi-sexual insomniac that gets to run out of her bedroom perplexed every time some strange noise occurs . 
liam neeson pops in from time to time to talk into his tape recorder and attempt to convince the others that he has as much knowledge about what's going on as the rest of them do . 
finally , poor lili taylor , the center of the film , gets the brunt of the cgi effects thrown at her while everyone else gets to scream and try to rescue her . 
apparently , a subplot involving a tryst between zeta-jones and taylor's characters was filmed but removed . 
that's too bad , because it might have lent some better characterization to the narrative . 
this is jan de bont's second straight misfire ( speed 2 : cruise control being the first ) . 
when is he going to learn that bigger is not always necessarily better ? 
robert wise knew that when he made the original and the makes of the blair witch project also knew that . 
one should not approach a haunted house movie with a twister mindset . 
if de bont and screenwriter david self had let our minds fill in the blanks as to what was happening instead of showing us everything , it would have served to make the film terrifying . 
what our mind fashions on it's own can be a thousand times more frightening than having having it completely led towards everything . 
apparently , yet another version of this story is being filmed under it's original title . 
i certainly hope that this newer rendition will not be hurt by the insanity of jan de bont's version and that it will retain the psychological impact that the original release had . 
[pg-13] 
 " tarzan and the lost city " is one of the most anemic movies to come out in quite a while . 
not only it is poorly written , badly acted , and generally incompetent in all cinematic areas , it is thoroughly uninspired and insipid . 
unfortunately , it's not bad in the way great , colossal misfires like " heaven's gate " ( 1980 ) or " ishtar " ( 1987 ) were bad . 
instead , it literally drips off the screen like a movie nobody wanted to be associated with , which begs the question of why it was made in the first place . 
with all the good scripts lying around hollywood un-produced , how does needless drek like this make its way to the big screen ? 
of course , tarzan is one of the most filmed characters in all of motion picture history - he has appeared in over forty films , which have ranged from the very good ( 1984's " greystoke : the legend of tarzan , lord of the apes " ) down to the really bad ( 1981's " tarzan , the ape man " with bo derek ) . 
most of these films were just cheapie b-movies made in the thirties and forties , starring ex-olympic athletes and a lot of cutsie chimps . 
therefore , if another tarzan movie is to be made , one might assume that it would have something new to offer - a different angle , an original storyline , anything to set it apart from all the others . 
 " greystoke " added a never-before-seen level of realism to the pulpy tale , and even " tarzan , the ape man " at least had the mis-guided audacity to sexualize the story as a vehicle for bo derek's bare breasts . 
 " tarzan and the lost city , " on the other hand , has absolutely nothing to offer but a bunch of recycled storylines and bad dialogue . 
the script , by bayard johnson and j . anderson black is about as formulaic and generic as they come . 
comic books have better plots than this . 
the movie is so bad , in fact , that it retains that ridiculous tarzan call that was so tirelessly mocked in last summer's comedy " george of the jungle . " 
didn't the producers think to leave that back in the old weissmuller pictures where it belongs ? 
the story starts with the legend of tarzan already firmly established : a quick opening narration tells of tarzan ( casper van dien ) being found in the jungle after having been raised by apes , and his return to england where he assumes his greystoke heritage . 
when the movie starts in 1913 , he is a civilized english gentleman ( without an english accent ) , and he is to marry jane ( jane march ) in less than a week . 
however , when a wicked archeologist/grave-robber named nigel ravens ( steve waddington ) begins hunting for the fabled lost city of opar , one of africa's last great secrets , the witch doctor of an ancient african tribe summons tarzan back to the jungle . 
at first , jane refuses to go , pouting about how it will interfere with their wedding ; but after tarzan leaves she changes her mind and tracks him down , therefore assuring lots of lame smooch scenes between her and her ape-man . 
once the film gets going ( in its own sluggish way ) , it delves into a series of jungle adventures , as tarzan , jane , and the natives attempt the thwart ravens and his crew from discovering the city . 
most of the so-called adventures are cheesy , predictable , and unexciting , with no pace , tension , or action to speak of . 
there are sequences stolen from innumerable recent adventure movies , ranging from " raiders of the lost ark " ( 1981 ) to " the goonies " ( 1985 ) . 
when the movie is running short on action , it includes a few greenpeace-friendly scenes of tarzan freeing caged animals , releasing a baby elephant from a trap , and throwing ivory tusks into the river . 
the movie is also lacking even a remote hint of reality . 
for instance , when tarzan - who was raised in the jungle - is bit by a cobra , he doesn't even attempt to suck the venom out like any semi-experienced weekend backpacker would do . 
instead , he ties a tourniquet around his arm and stumbles off into the jungle with no plan for survival . 
of course , one can't help but notice how fundamentally misleading the title is . 
not to ruin the ending or anything , but there is no lost city . 
there is , however , a lost pyramid , which i suppose is all the resource-strapped fx department could come up with ( the special effects are not worthy of a made-for-tv movie ) . 
which also brings up the question of why the treasure hunters had to slog through numerous underground caverns to get to the lost pyramid , when it's sitting right out in the middle of an open field ? 
strictly speaking , " tarzan and the lost city " isn't even bad enough to have camp quality , although casper van dien's laughably stiff performance comes real close . 
this movie proves what " starship troopers " only hinted at : he cannot act , but he sure looks well-groomed , even in the deepest heart of the african jungle . 
van dien is much too much of a pretty-boy to be an effective tarzan ; he's a calvin klein model in a loin cloth . 
i also wondered what the make-up department was thinking when it outfitted him with that awful circa-1983 steve perry haircut . 
waddington makes a decent villain , although he's like a charmless version of belloq from " raiders of the lost ark . " as jane , the ex-model jane march has little to do but smile and look pretty next to tarzan . 
she does fire off a gun at the evil treasure hunters a time or two , but whenever a snake comes into the picture , she is reduced to a hysterical mess . 
however , amidst all this complaining , i do have one piece of good news . 
 " tarzan and the lost city " is so lacking in ideas both new and old , that it is unable to fill even an hour and a half of celluloid . 
so , we can say this much for it : at least it had the decency to be short . 
everything in the phantom you have seen many times before and there is nothing new presented here . 
wincer displays absolutely no skill in setting up an exciting action sequence . 
billy zane is wooden as the hero . 
kristy swanson is given very little to do , and does very little with it . 
treat williams , looking like rhett butler but sounding like mickey mouse , is one of the worst villains i have ever seen in a movie . 
only catherine zeta jones , as one of williams cohorts turns in a good performance . 
she has energy and spunk , which the movie needed much more of . 
oh yeah , the phantom also has a secret identity but this is so poorly played out you won't even care . 
about the only things i can recommend are a good performance by jones , and some colorful scenery . 
however , if youre looking for a fun family movie , go watch the underrated flipper . 
this is not a good movie . 
a life less ordinary ( r ) while the extremely peculiar a life less ordinary does live up to its title , a more appropriate moniker would be a movie more misguided , for this confused , confusing attempt at romantic comedy is a most disarming disaster from the talented trainspotting team of director danny boyle , producer andrew macdonald , and screenwriter john hodge . 
at the core of this strange film is a fairly basic--and , yes , ordinary--premise . 
after robert ( boyle regular ewan mcgregor ) , an aspiring writer of trashy novels , is fired from his janitorial job at the naville corporation , he kidnaps naville's ( ian holm ) spoiled daughter celine ( cameron diaz ) and holds her for ransom . 
the joke here is that celine is a willing victim--her father threatened to cut her off financially , so she wants revenge--and that she soon becomes not only an accomplice but the brains behind the scheme , teaching the inept robert a thing or two about kidnapping . . . 
and , ultimately ( didn't we see this one coming ? ) , 
love . 
so far , so mediocre . 
but mediocre is better than dreadful , which this film is , thanks in no small part to the hodge's contextual frame for the romance . 
it turns out that god is displeased with the divorce and romantic breakup rate on earth , so the chief of heaven's police , gabriel ( dan hedaya ) dispatches two angels , o'reilly ( holly hunter ) and jackson ( delroy lindo ) , to earth to hook up celine and robert--or lose their angel status . 
this conceit might have worked if the angel dimension played an integral role in the entire picture . 
but it could have easily been cut without any clear loss to the film ; as it stands , it is simply a waste of time that distracts from the romance at hand . 
not that there is much of a romance to begin with . 
try as diaz and mcgregor may , celine and robert are too one-note to become very endearing characters . 
celine is rich bitch ; robert is a dullard . 
as such , it is quite hard for the audience to really connect with these two--then again , they never seem to really connect with each other . 
when celine and robert start to overtly act on their " feelings , " it comes off more like something scripted than anything natural . 
but i am not exactly sure if boyle and company's point was romance ; honestly , i am not exactly sure what they were trying to accomplish . 
boyle juices up the visuals with his characteristic razzmatazz , but it remains just that--energy , not energy in service of a story or even acting . 
the cast seems lost , especially hunter , whose performance is so adrift as to be baffling . 
and then there are the many eccentricities splattered onto the film : some violent confrontations involving the angels , who are not exactly angelic--in fact , they end up staging their own ransom scheme ; some mystical hokum in the climax ; and a cutesy claymation epilogue . 
watching much of a life less ordinary is like being trapped in indie hipster hell , stockpiling quirks in the name of cool . 
instead , the film just gives quirky a bad name . 
my best guess as to what the filmmakers wanted to accomplish is an atmosphere of warped womantic ( yes , misspelling intended ) whimsy , which comes through in only one scene : an extended musical number where celine and robert sing " beyond the sea " at a karaoke bar . 
after a verse or two , the couple are magically dolled up in snazzy outfits and hairdos , and engage in a spirited dance routine on the counter . 
the scene works not only because of its relative simplicity but also because it does not try too hard , just relying on the innate charm of the leads , allowing them to build a romantic rapport . 
alas , not nearly enough is built , for this moment comes to an abrupt end . 
i applaud any attempt to bring something fresh and unique to movie houses , but sometimes even cleverness can reach overkill . 
a life less ordinary certainly delivers something " different , " but by the time the film was over , i was clamoring for a life more ordinary . 
 " i can accept failure . 
everyone fails at something . 
but i can't accept not trying . 
it doesn't matter if you win as long as you give everything in your heart . " 
--michael jordan 
how could a g-rated disney film based on meg cabot's novel " the princess diaries " be anything but cute , harmless fun ? 
easy . 
take all the cute , harmless fun out of it . 
and while you're at it make it borrr-ring . 
that's what director garry marshall , screenwriter gina wendkos and , not to be outdone , producer whitney houston have done with the g-rated disney film " the princess diaries . " 
you couldn't tell it from the audience though , a braintree , mass . of growing , glowing pre-pubescent girls ( and the odd parental , popcorn perched about their persons ) , who positively cheered when the end credits rolled ( ah the film had struck a lovely nerve with them but not with fuddy-duddy old me ) . 
well , i might have cheered that the utter tripe was now well and truly over , but that would have been too obvious . 
too obvious is the least of the problems with marshall's film ( garry made a couple of other " princess " movies-- " pretty woman " and " runaway bride " --but this one's way without julia roberts so maybe * that's * its problem ) . 
in addition to being predictable as molasses , " the princess diaries " has hardly got a laugh in it ( it's a comedy ) , could bore the pants off an abyssinian for long , long stretches , and is so sloppily edited the principals refer to scenes we haven't even seen yet ( and probably never will except , perhaps , in the dvd edition ) . 
marshall should take virtually all of the blame here , since he's been at this for some time and should know when a scene or two isn't working . . . 
and hardly * any * of " the princess diaries " works ( " works , " alas , implies cleverness and there's none of that here either ) . 
newcomer anne hathaway stars as mia thermopolis , a bright but socially invisible san franciscan teen who learns that her single mom ( a wacky artist played by the likable caroline goodall ) had a bit of a fling with some royal member of some miniscule european country nobody ever heard of ( the filmmakers go out of their way * not * to call it serbia , which is pretty much what all miniscule european countries are called in the movies mark my words ) and now she , mia , is next in line to rule " genovia " ( hence the headphones/tiara combo in the print ads ) . 
julie andrews , with the luminous factor cranked to 11 , plays mia's grandmother ( aka queen clarisse renaldi ) , who shows up out of the royal blue and lends mia much advice and direction in the eating , talking , and looking like a princess department ( although mia's big makeover simply transforms her from ugly duckling to ugly swan ) . 
does queen julie lose her dignity for the sake of a good laugh ? 
not really . 
consuming a corn dog is about the worst that it gets . 
also on stereotypical hand are a brainless jock , an evil cheerleader , a dorky-looking best friend ( " welcome to the dollhouse " 's heather matarazzo ) , a sensitive auto mechanic/musician , and marshall mainstay hector elizondo as joe the driver , imparting wit and wisdom from the front seat of mia's chauffeur-driven limousine at every intersection . 
a non-animated g-rated movie is a rarity these days but the rating here reflects the fact that all the guts , all the good stuff , has been exorcised from the finished product . 
lame , labored , and lamentable , " the princess diaries " is recommended for eight-and-a-half year olds of the feminine persuasion * only * ; all others would do well to avoid it ( like potholes , the plague , and " the perfect storm " ) . 
the corruptor is a big silly mess of an action movie , complete with pointless plot turns and gratuitous violence . 
it's not abhorrent , or even blatantly unlikable , but it doesn't make a shred of sense . 
and whose idea was it to have the director of glengarry glen ross direct an action film ? 
james foley knows a lot about characters and acting , and those are the strengths of the corruptor . 
but the quiet scenes clash with the ludicrous action nonsense , and the result is less like a movie and more like a derailed train . 
at least we have chow yun-fat in the lead role . 
chow plays nick chen , a chinatown cop . 
he's a good cop , as the first few scenes establish , and he's very familiar with chinatown . 
that's probably why the powers-that-be decide to team him up with a rookie named danny wallace ( mark wahlberg ) . 
nick and danny begin by stepping on each other's toes , but finally end up liking each other once they both get a chance to save the other one's life . 
what happens after that is kind of a mystery to me . 
i'm fairly certain that the villains are all part of the fukienese dragons , led by a young chinese psycho named bobby vu ( byron mann ) . 
i'm also pretty sure that nick is on the payroll of henry lee ( ric young ) , a gangster dealing in prostitutes and other neat stuff . 
i'm not quite sure why henry lee decides to employ danny , although this makes for some ridiculous ( albeit unpredictable ) plot twists along the way . 
there's also an interesting subplot revolving around danny's father ( brian cox ) , but it doesn't have much to do with the main story . 
one of the problems , as i said , is that the movie doesn't make any sense . 
i don't blame this entirely on foley , because he's obviously a good director . 
i'm more inclined to point my finger at robert pucci's script , which doesn't seem to be in tune to the way normal people act . 
one scene early on had me particularly annoyed : nick confronts his boss because he's angry about his new white partner . 
he's shouting and pointing his finger and stepping on the furniture , and i was thinking that i would have fired him if he had done that to me . 
 ( in addition , the film takes a bite into race-related issues , and never develops them at all . ) 
there are a lot of scenes like this one , and none of them are very coherent . 
there's also a considerable language barrier , given that chow and some of the other actors have thick chinese accents . 
the plot itself never straightens out . 
i'm not sure who or what the fukienese dragons are , or why henry lee is associated with them , or what they do as a group . 
the corruptor is an action movie , and so all these weird plot developments are decorated with loud and violent action sequences . 
the sequences aren't bad , but they're not new ; how many car chases through chinatown have you seen ? 
on that note , how many chinatown cop movies have you seen ? 
one too many , i'd imagine . 
foley's strength is clearly in characterization , and he does a pretty good job here . 
the scenes between nick and danny are very good , and i actually got a feel for their characters ; a bond forms between them that holds parts of the film together . 
chow and wahlberg are both good actors ; chow is a pro , and can do this kind of stuff in his sleep . 
wahlberg seems less at home in this atmosphere , but he's still fun to watch . 
i also liked the subplot involving danny's father ; brian cox's performance is powerful , and his character makes a compelling moral compass for danny . 
but the film ultimately fails , mostly at the hands of insane incoherence and overly-familiar action scenes . 
a complicated plot can be successful , but the story needs to make sense when it's over . 
the corruptor never manages to make any sense -- it just keeps spinning out of control until , finally , there's nothing left to hold on to . 
 " return to horror high , " wants to be a couple different types of movies at once . 
the film tells the story of a low-budget horror movie being filmed at the closed-down crippen high , a school where a group of serial murders took place five years before . 
but what the cast and crew don't know is that a real killer , maybe the same one that was never apprehended , is going into action again . 
on one level , " return to horror high " is a slasher movie , and it is at this level that it works the best on . 
watching the film , which was made in 1987 , i couldn't help but take notice that the killer's costume was almost identital to that of the ghostface in , " scream , " and " scream 2 . " 
on another level , the film wants to be a slapstick comedy , and there are many hints of this throughout . 
unfortunately , most of these jokes fall flat . 
and the last thing the film wants to be is a " behind-the-scenes " look at an exploitation film being made . 
the only problem is that , while much of it is supposed to be from the movie itself being made , no cameras are shown filming it , thus making it far more confusing than it had to be . 
and to top it all off , the " twist " ending makes very little to no sense whatsoever , and so we are basically left with feeling as if we wasted our time . 
there are story developments that are beyond ludicrous , and plot holes you could drive a winnebago through . 
if you see the film , or have seen it , you'll know what i mean . 
the premise of " return to horror high , " is admittedly pretty crafty , and i liked the atmosphere of the school , which is where the whole thing takes place . 
but director froehlich , judging from this movie , is an incompetent director , except for being able to film the seldom suspeneful scene . 
well , come to think of it , there is only one scene that is actually scary , and it has to do with two actors being locked in a room as the killer tries to break in . 
but other than that two-minute distraction , " return to horror high , " is certainly no great shake . 
note : look for george clooney in a supporting role as one of the actors on the film . 
and strangely enough , he is the first character to get the ax . . . literally . 
the art of woo attempts to be one of those films like breakfast at tiffany's in which the audience is rooting for some sweet , vulnerable , irresistible woman to work out her problems and to find happiness . 
the problem is that helen lee who writes and directs seems to have written alessa woo ( played by sook-yin lee ) as neither sweet nor vulnerable and she is quite resistible . 
alessa is a young woman who happens to be a brilliant art dealer in the toronto art scene . 
this is some sort of alternate world art scene where people pay tens of thousands of dollars for paintings by talented beginners and dealers in these paintings fly back and forth to places like switzerland . 
one of the most knowledgeable of the art dealers is alessa . 
she also happens to be the center of adulation of her friends and every party has suitors camped outside her window . 
next door to alessa moves struggling genius artist and native american ben crowchild ( adam beach ) . 
he sees that behind the facade that there is really a sad little girl within alessa who really will not be happy with the rich art collector she is dating . 
ben gets emotionally involved with alessa . 
 ( as alessa so delicately puts it , " we were bosom buddies , now we're fuck buddies . " ) 
but alessa will have to decide whether she wants love with ben or wealth with her rich suitor . 
the real problem with the film seems to be helen lee's inability to decide what she wants to be saying . 
she undercuts nearly everything she wants us to believe about alessa . 
alessa is looking for financial security but she makes decisions about large sums of money for her clients . 
this appears to be a high profile and well-paid job . 
we are supposed to care about alessa's feelings , but she coldly refuses to visit her own ailing father . 
alessa cannot be portrayed as sweet and vulnerable if at an art auction she turns into our man flint . 
this is a charmless romantic comedy that bets everything it has on the appeal of its main character and comes up double-zero . 
i rate it a 3 on the 0 to 10 scale and a -1 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
capsule : a science fiction allegory . 
at the millennium a lethal contagious virus has hit taiwan . 
officials have cut off water and other services to the center of contagion . 
life there devolves and degenerates . 
a man in an apartment has a hole in his floor and with it harasses his downstairs neighbor . 
a slow but harrowing film to be missed if possible . 
 , low -1 ( -4 to +4 ) 
- the taiwan virus is ravaging taiwan and the part of the city that is the center of the contagion has been evacuated of anyone who will go . 
one apartment building still houses people . 
a woman , formerly an office worker , ( yang kuei-mei ) is tormented by her upstairs neighbor ( lee kang-sheng ) who has a hole cut by a plumber in the floor and is using it as a drain . 
neighbor runs a small failing grocery store . 
- to make things more depressing , it is constantly raining hard . 
- upstairs neighbor vomits through , pours water , etc . a small and almost entirely one-sided war starts . 
allegory about callousness and selfishness . 
- woman is living on a pile of rolls of toilet tissue . 
- incongruous songs added to show downstairs neighbors dreams . 
these are the songs of popular taiwanese singer grace chang . 
- apartment is falling apart . 
wallpaper is separating from walls . 
plumbing is failing . 
- boredom shown by long cuts in which nothing happens . 
a lot of film seems to be used up . 
- this story might have been done much better as a ten-minute animated film . 
- stars are considered to be great dramatic actors by one reviewer . 
- this film seems longer at 95 minutes most two-hour films . 
seen december 2 , 1997 at 6 : 50 p . m . at the glenwood movieplex cinemas ( oneida , ny ) , theater #3 , by myself for free ( free pass ) . 
[theater rating : * * * : good seats , sound , and picture] 
there are many philosophies as to why we are so fascinated with cartoons . 
they provide a method of total escapism in which anything will work within their context , from the outrageous slapstick of looney tunes to the intensity of japanimation . 
watching " flubber " really clinched this idea for me , because it's just a live action cartoon that presents itself as a regular comedy . 
it proves how painfully unfunny all those gags and slapstick would be in reality , and how important it is to actually have a story . 
the film wastes no time in establishing its lighthearted , cartoony atmosphere . 
we meet medfield college chemistry professor phillip brainard ( williams ) , the typical , supposedly likable mad scientist . 
within the first 10 minutes we get at least a half dozen jokes about how forgetful he is . 
phillip's memory loss seems less like a cartoony gag and more like a real case of alzhiemer's disease - isn't this rather lowbrow comedy ? 
he starts teaching chemistry after walking in on a nude figure drawing class ( an inappropriate joke for a kids' movie if i ever saw one ) . 
we learn he has stood his up fiancee , sara ( harden ) , twice at the altar simply because he's forgotten . 
sara claims to love him , but says if he forgets the wedding again she'll stop loving him ( a sign of childish attitude the film denies it has ) . 
but even cartoons must have conflicts to resolve , and it's no surprise the major conflicts here are related . 
christopher mcdonald does and even worse version of his usual villain shtick as wilson croft , a scientist who not only wants to steal phillip's ideas , but his woman too . 
what's worse is that sara actually seems interested in him ! 
wilson works for a rival college that wants to buy out medfield , which is going broke , unless phillip can invent something to save the day . 
one of the first rules of filmmaking is to make sure the title has something to do with the film . 
the flubber is played for gags after it is introduced , but is all but forgotten about thereafter . 
it's obvious phillip is going to accidentally invent flubber , a flying rubber compound that yields tremendous energy , and the promotions make the flubber look realistic and funny . 
unfortunately , the flubber , like all the special effects in this film , looks very fake and unconvincing . 
flubber also seems to have intelligence and a personality , and by the time it performs a song and dance routine , you give up wondering how life could spontaneously come to an inanimate object . 
most of the film wanders aimlessly as it relies on the flubber to make for the comedy ( since phillip's absent-mindedness is forgotten about ) and somehow push the story along . 
but it's clear how weak this premise is from the get-go and the film just gets worse . 
all the jokes involve people getting hit by fast-moving , flubber-powered objects including : bowling balls ; flying cars that don't fly well ; and a basketball team capable of jumping 100 feet into the air . 
it's all presented with complete logic , and no one believes flubber exists even when they see it with their own eyes . 
during the basketball scene , the coach for the rival team actually says , " i think they might be cheating , " to which the referee replies , " there's no rules about jumping too high . " 
 " predictable " doesn't begin to describe the motions the film goes through , especially after the halfway point . 
and it's not how terribly contrived the plot is , it's the way it's broken down scene-by-scene , with absolutely no transition . 
not only that , but all the actors here , especially williams , seem bored to tears . 
i'd say 80 percent of all the scenes were shot with a bluescreen , so it's almost forgivable when you realize they're talking to nothing and interacting with nothing . 
it's safe to say everything that could be bad about " flubber " is . 
the only original element the film has is the world's first romance between a machine and a human . 
but this aspect is quite twisted if you think about it , and , like the rest of the film , you won't . 
plot : a down-and-out girl moves in with some over-the-top models and falls in love with a goofy-but-loveable guy from across the street . 
aaaaaaaaah ! 
then one day , she sees him knock a woman upside the head with a baseball bat . 
ooooooooh ! 
she must then join together with her model-friends to find out whether or not this guy is really goofy-but-loveable , or a psycho killer . 
aaaaaaaaah ! 
critique : completely idiotic . 
okay , so maybe i'm being a little too nice . 
this movie starts off dumb , moves into the ridiculous and eventually graduates to idiocy . 
there . . . that's 
more like it ! 
and how , you may ask ? 
well , it's simple really . 
four of the dumbest stereotypical models in the world ( oh my god , i just found out that the actresses playing the parts are models in real life . . . yipes ! ) 
join monica potter ( in a role which can only be described as an obvious cry for help ) and freddie prinze jr . ( not the actor , but the character better known as freddie prinze jr . ) , in a plot so stupid and far-fetched , that you have to wonder once more , how crap like this gets by the hollywood bigwigs . 
this thing stinks to high-heaven . 
it's just plain embarrassing for everyone involved . 
i even felt my iq dip below its usual low as toilet humor somehow worked its way into this so-called romantic-comedy-action movie ? 
ugh . 
what a pile of dung . 
hey , i'm actually starting to sound a little like harry knowles here , but i guess i could see where his frustration comes from time to time . 
it's sad really . 
a movie which actually had quite a few people in my audience laughing at its idiocy , including the over-used " folks hiding in the bathroom while someone else comes in to take a crap and fart " gag . 
and how about that dumb blonde model who keeps running into things . 
pure hilarity ! 
or maybe i'm just too jaded , too much of a critic , not relaxed enough to enjoy this fluff-piece . . . uuuhhmmm . . . naaaaah ! ! 
this movie sucks the big one . 
it's chockfull of stupid characters delivering inane dialogue fitting snuggly into a preposterous plot . 
this is the kind of movie that has one character inserting another character into a car headfirst to the floor only because . . . well , 
it's supposed to be funny , see ? 
you see , that person then has their legs swinging in the other person's face as they drive and that distracts the driver , see , and well , that's kinda funny , no ? 
harumph . . . yeah , 
well . . . you 
get the picture ! 
anyhoo , freddie prinze jr . . . . nuff 
said . 
monica potter , a bad career move , but we might forgive you if you keep up the julia roberts bit . 
the rest of the model girls . . . well , 
thanks for being there so i had something to look at , but please apologize to the entire modeling community as a whole , for making them all out to be complete imbeciles ! ! 
so why the three points out of ten , you may ask ? 
well , it's simple really . 
one point goes to the russian model girl and that cool accent ( don't ask me why , but it actually turned me on ) . 
one point goes out to all of the model girls for being in the movie ( nice window decoration . . . natch ! ) . 
and one last point goes out to the makers of this film , who spared us any long sorted story , and made sure to give us the opportunity of leaving the theatre after only 90 minutes of manufactured garbage , so that we could run out as fast as we can , grab the next person that we see walking down the street and warn them of the devil that is . . . freddie prinze jr . . . i 
mean , head over heels . 
you've been warned , good people . 
ps : didja notice how i didn't even mention rear window once in my entire review ? 
i didn't want to taint the memory of the classic flick by having it uttered alongside this thing , but then again , i just did mention it , but i guess it doesn't count in the ps section . . . or 
does it ? 
ooooh , whatever . . . i have a headache ! 
 ( i think my brain is coming back to life ) 
where's joblo coming from ? 
10 things i hate about you ( 7/10 ) - coyote ugly ( 6 . 5/10 ) 
- down to you ( 6 . 5/10 ) 
- save the last dance ( 7/10 ) - she's all that ( 6 . 5/10 ) 
- the wedding planner ( 4/10 ) - you've got mail ( 5 . 5/10 ) 
for those interested in the true spirit of moviemaking - or what's left of it in mainstream hollywood - movie which are star vehicles are terrible things . 
as a rule , the ignore general principles of cinema because they are not made to advance the media but rather to advance the career of a particular actor . 
an actor might be chosen on the up-and-up , to give him exposure ; or he might be chosen on the way down to hand him a paycheck . 
generally , though , the actor doesn't matter , and soldier , the latest from the beleaguered warner brothers , exemplifies this : the picture lacks pizazz . 
the star for the vehicle in this case is kurt russell , otherwise known as the man of thirty words or less . 
russell plays todd , a human trained from birth in the ways of waging war and becoming emotionally distanced from the carnage he has wrought . 
the movie lets us see this degenerate process , but by the time the real plot starts , we're into todd's later years . 
he's about to be replaced by a new breed of soldiers , ones who , instead of being trained * from * birth , are genetically selected * before * birth . 
the pride of this class - caine 607 ( jason scott lee ) - will be our villain , and you know he's the villain because he has a staring contest with our hero near the movie's start . 
between the two leads , less than a full typed page of dialogue is spoken , and it's possible to imagine a script which is ninety percent stage direction . 
director paul anderson , who helmed last year's icy thriller , event horizon , doesn't show any inventiveness here and instead is content to let the actions play out on screen ad nauseam . 
todd , upon being replaced , is left to die on a garbage planet ; but in order to stretch the running time out , the villains return to the garbage planet on a " routine patrol " and set the stage for the final firefight . 
events are predictable from the time that the setups are made , and neither anderson nor scriptwriter david peoples attempts to show any creativeness here . 
the most annoying plot facet is the reason that the whole of the movie comes to be : todd fails to show physical superiority against caine - in fact , not even todd and two of his companions can best the baddie - but near the end of the movie he shows remarkable prowess with automatic weaponry . 
it's not as though todd undergoes any significant character changes throughout the plot of the story , and so the plot has a very canned feeling about it . 
the best route through this disaster is to take it lighthearted in spirit , and treat it as a parody of typical action fare , like universal soldier . 
a strict interpretation , however , reveals an unmistakeable and unforgiveable lack of style , class , or substance ; and by next year , a large percentage of the people who have seen this will have taped it off of network television . 
director doug ellin's kissing a fool , released earlier this year , is an aptly titled comedy about two plastic couples housed in an artificial story . 
like a sitcom with jokes so lame that it would be impossible to overlay a laugh track on it , the movie meanders along insulting the viewers' intelligence in almost every frame . 
the script by james frey and the director is filled with vapid actors who read meaningless lines you've heard before . 
 ( " i'm not wearing any underwear , " the bimbo tells the famous sportscaster , max , in what she assumes will be a sure-fire come-on line . ) 
max , chicago's biggest playboy , decides to get married after a whirlwind love affair with sam , short for samantha . 
max and sam possess two irritating personalities , and they hold little chemistry for each other or the audience . 
max is played without any style by david schwimmer . 
schwimmer , whose acting talent is playing characters devoid of personality , makes an unlikely lover . 
his costar , mili avital as sam , is cut from the same cloth , so they can be argued to be a matched pair . 
after all , people of the same intelligence are naturally drawn to each other , ditto for similar looks , so why shouldn't the personality-challenged be attracted ? 
the implausible plot has max asking his best friend , jay ( jason lee ) , to hit on sam as a test . 
jay is supposed to try to get her to sleep with him , but stop short of the actual act . 
max , being promiscuous by nature , worries that his future bride may have the same need to sleep around as he does . 
the idea of flirting with the beautiful sam makes jay so sick that he becomes unable to eat or work . 
neither the script nor the actors make this test believable . 
 " the 64 , 000 question is : how do you know you're with the wrong person so you can avoid wreaking havoc on major parts of your life ? " 
jay asks in one of the unsuccessful attempts at adding some seriousness to the film . 
finally , there is the film's attempt at physical comedy . 
jay's ex-girlfriend natasha ( vanessa angel ) becomes infatuated with jay again once she thinks he is going out with someone else . 
natasha rips jay's shirt open after pushing him down onto the sofa . 
as she throws her hair on his bare chest , she demands he pull it . 
this is supposed to be funny ? 
most films have some saving grace . 
some bit part was done especially well or some scene managed to be funny even if the rest of the picture wasn't . 
kissing a fool , on the other hand , has nothing to recommend it . 
kissing a fool runs 1 : 45 . 
it is rated r for profanity and sexuality and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
i am continually amazed at movies like this . 
that some producer would waste an abundance of talent and money on a script as abysmal as this one is mind-boggeling , but it seems to happen a lot nowadays . 
 " wild wild west " is a beautifully filmed , well acted , and well directed piece of garbage ; and its insipid screenplay is completely at fault . 
in short , this movie is a comedy without laughs . 
so many jokes fall flat that it borderlines surreal . 
the high production values keep it from being a total fiasco , but it's still pretty boring . 
will smith stars as jim west , an old western , r&b variation of the james bond character . 
west is teamed up with artemus gordon ( kevin kline ) , and they're pretty much polar oppisites : west prefers to solve his problems with an array of bullets , gordon traditionally favors a more pacifistic approach . 
talk about deeply developed characters . 
at any rate , this leads to the inevitable conflicts between methodologies , none of which are funny . 
the year is 1869 . 
several top scientists have been abducted , and the suspected culprit is a disgruntled former confederate general , bloodbath mcgrath ( ted levine ) . 
president grant sends west and gordon to investigate . 
there's evidence that mcgrath is attending some sort of confederate reunion in louisiana . 
west and gordon show up and learn that mcgrath is actually working for dr . arliss loveless ( kenneth branagh ) , another disgruntled former confederate . 
as it turns out , loveless plans to use the combined knowledge of the scientests to create the ultimate super weapon , which he will use to conquer the united states . 
i'd go further with the plot , but there isn't any point . 
this film's narrative is little more than a jumbled , unfunny mess . 
i only laughed at a couple of jokes , and then only lightly . 
there isn't one truly uprorously funny moment in this film , and that's pretty disasterous when you consider that it's primarily a comedy . 
as i said , the fault is totally that of the script . 
when you consider their respective roles , will smith and kevil kline do as good as they could have possibly done . 
the leads could've been played samuel l . jackson and robert de niro and the film still would've been awful . 
no one , and i mean no one , can make a line like " bye bye , mr . knife guy ! " 
sound good . 
still , this film has a lot going for it visually . 
the set design is fantastic , maybe even oscar worthy . 
the cinematogrophy by michael ballhaus ( who was also behind camera in martin scorsese's brilliant " goodfellas " ) , is absolutely stunning . 
he lends the film a much needed exciting , comic bookish look . 
i won't fault barry sonnenfeld either . 
he does a fine job of directing the proceedings , but , like the rest of the people involved with the film , there really isn't anything that he can do to correct its one major flaw . 
despite being beautifully made , " wild wild west " becomes quite boring after the half-way point . 
the appeal of the visuals ends long before the film does . 
if " wild wild west " didn't look so good , it would be almost insufferable . 
as it is , it's somewhat tolerable , but not very entertaining . 
it hurts to give such a well made movie a score this low , but there isn't anything much worse than an unfunny comedy . 
this talky , terribly-plotted thriller stars alec baldwin as dave robicheaux , an ex-new orleans cop who gets ensnared in a murder- mystery after a light-plane crashes into the bayou beside his fishing boat . 
he and his wife annie ( kelly lynch ) rescue a little salvadorian girl ( samantha lagpacan ) from the wreckage and that's when the trouble begins . 
the other major players include a local drug lord ( eric roberts ) , his scheming wife ( teri hatcher ) , a soused stripper ( mary stuart masterson ) , and a shady dea agent ( vondie curtis hall ) . 
everyone knows everyone else and it makes for a collective that's curious but never compelling . 
based on the book by james lee burke , heaven's prisoners is so badly plotted that entire * scenes * seem to be missing . 
early on , we have no idea of why dave and annie keep the child to themselves . 
nor how they eluded both the coast guard and the faa . 
later , dave is reunited with a drug-abuser who appears seemingly clean and sober and without any explanation . 
huh ? 
the whole movie is like this , perhaps the result of some unkind cuts that happened during the eighteen months that the film sat on the shelf . 
whatever the reason , somebody should tell director phil joanou ( final analysis ) to recut this mess . 
in its present form , heaven's prisoners runs only two hours plus change , but it feels like four . 
spoiled rich kid kelley morse ( chris klein ) receives a new mercedes for a graduation present . 
he and his buddies take it for a joyride to a small nearby town , where he proceeds to torment the locals simply because he's rich and they're not . 
he ends up provoking jasper ( josh hartnett ) into a race and as a result , the local gas station and diner are destroyed when they crash into it . 
kelley is sentenced to rebuild the diner , and has to live with jasper in a spare room over his family's barn . 
jasper's girlfriend sam ( leelee sobieski ) soon takes a liking to kelley however , despite the fact that 1 ) it was her family's diner that was destroyed and b ) all kelley does is sit around , sulk , and smart off to the townspeople . 
but when she sees him sweaty and shirtless , that's apparently all she needs to lose her feelings for jasper ( whose only fault seems to be a perpetual case of hat hair ) . 
so sobieski soon falls in love with kelley , especially after the day she follows him through the woods and hears him giving his graduation speech ( which he was unable to deliver because he caused the destruction of property and nearly killed dozens of people ) . 
in the speech , kelley quotes a poem by robert frost , which just so happens to be sam's favorite poem as well . 
awwwww . 
soon they're frolicking around in the fields and for some reason waste no time letting people in town ( especially jasper's best friend ) see them together . 
kelley continues to make an ass of himself in town , especially when he shows up at the town dance , drunk and steaming because sam went with jasper . 
kelley runs off and decides to leave town . 
sam catches up to him at the bus station and he asks her to come to boston with him . 
jasper shows up and tearfully confesses to sam just how much he loves her , and sam , without even breaking stride basically says " see ya ! " 
and takes off to boston with kelley . 
here on earth goes in so many wrong directions from the start that by the time its fairly decent ending comes around , its completely worthless . 
chris klein and leelee sobieski are two of my current favorite young performers , and it's because of their presence that i watched this film in the first place . 
however , not long into the proceedings i wanted to just reach into the film and strangle them both . 
i shouldn't have such feelings towards people i like , but their characters are so infuriating that . . . 
well trust me , you'll feel the same way . 
even though both of the lead male characters are usually in the wrong , kelley is hands down the more unlikable of the two , simply because his jerkish actions are calculated . 
he intends to be a jackass each and every time he does it . 
jasper on the other hand , only reacts to kelley's provocations , and afterwards comes across as being truly sorry for his impulsive actions . 
but , as in life , nice guys finish last . 
for the entire film we watch sam fall in love with the guy no one likes while the film's only sympathetic character gets completely crushed . 
then , a cancer subplot comes into play ( where things get even more infuriating , if you can imagine that ) . 
what , things weren't depressing enough for you mr . screenwriter ? 
who greenlit this project ? 
who " on earth " thought this would entertain anyone ? 
perhaps if the film had been structured where kelley perhaps felt some remorse after he caused the destruction of property and nearly killed dozens of people . 
but even after he's destroyed these people's lives he continues to be a snob to them , and ruins one more for good measure . 
here on earth is available on dvd from fox home entertainment . 
it contains the film in its original theatrical aspect ratio of 1 . 85 : 1 and is enhanced for 16x9 televisions . 
extras include jessica simpson's music video for " where you are " , a commercial for the film's soundtrack ( which by the way is the only good thing about the film ) , the original theatrical trailer and five tv spots , trailers for other fox releases ( anna and the king , anywhere but here , the beach , drive me crazy , ever after , romeo + juliet , simply irresistible ) , as well as that new fox promo touting their upcoming dvd releases that i really enjoy . 
the picture and sound quality on the disc are fine . . . 
nothing that will challenge anyone's audio/video systems of course . 
fans of this movie ( if any exist ) should enjoy the dvd release . 
here on earth is not entertaining nor is it compelling . 
no joy or entertainment value can be derived from any of the events of the film . 
it is merely a waste of time , money and talent . 
some movies' pre-release buzz is so insistent on their high oscar potential that when they're finally released , everyone just goes along with it . 
thus sometimes , films unworthy of any award sans the razzie become oscar hopefuls and some even score nominations . 
last year it was the thin red line . 
this year's " winner " is the hurricane , pure unadulterated tripe that is all of a sudden being received with critical plaudits and votes in the office oscar pool . 
acclaimed director norman jewison's biopic retreads all the conventions of courtroom movies without any of the fun . 
and that's supposed to be ok because , see , it's a true story . 
it's about rubin " hurricane " carter ( denzel washington ) , a legendary african american prizefighted who is unjustly convicted of triple homicide with the help of a ghastly ( racist ! ) 
detective ( dan hedaya ) who's had it in for the " big-shot " hurricane ever since he arrested him for stabbing a white man with a knife ( in self-defense but who cares , right ? ) 
when rubin was only ten . 
he is to serve three life sentences with no possibility of parole . 
most of the film takes place when he is in his 15th year in prison . 
to the rescue -- lesra martin ( vicellous reon shannon ) and his team of wanna-be detectives . 
lesra is an african american teenager taken in by three well-off canadian white people ( hanna , unger , schreiber ) to get an education . 
lesra and his buddies go to a book sale where lesra picks out his very first book -- " the sixteenth round , " rubin's autobiography . 
immediately thereafter , schreiber's character tells lesra " sometimes we don't pick the books we read , they pick us . " 
hmmm . 
after a few visits to the prison , they become convinced of rubin's innocence and launch their own full-scale investigation even though two juries have convicted him . 
they meticulously go through all the files and revisit all the old witnesses ( i wonder if any of them might be cranky old women who slam the door in their faces ? ) and in the course of their relentlessy tedious sleuthing uncover obvious evidence confirming the hurricane's innocence that was either ignored or never seeked out during the first two proceedings . 
of course , we're already told that he's innocent . 
a movie like this is especially frustrating because we're not being shown everything significant that happened to carter during this period in his life . 
all too obviously , we're getting the hollywood watered- down version . 
that would be ok except that the parts we are getting is milked for every single drop of melodrama that the filmmakers could possibly squeeze out of it . 
it's almost cruel . 
the melodrama isn't of the entertaining kind either ; it's the hokey , rammed-down-your-throat variety where every emotion is exaggerated to the point of absurdity . 
witness the villain ferociously grinding his teeth at the final trial or the constant pseudo-saintliness of our four protagonists . 
the hurricane is your basic courtroom movie except it's a no-frills courtroom movie . 
it's formula stripped to the bare necessities . 
you have your wrongly accused black man . 
you have your melodramatic final courtroom scene . 
but there's nothing else . 
you'd expect some sort of involving investigation . 
but that's not necessary since we're implicitly informed of his innocence . 
thus the whole middle portion of the movie is reduced to the protagonist brooding . 
brooding to himself . 
brooding to other inmates . 
brooding to lesra . 
brooding to lesra's canadian friends . 
brooding in letters . 
i don't think i'll ever look at brooding the same way again . 
it wasn't long before i got tired of hearing the hurricane's exceedingly deep meditations on his condition . 
i wanted something to happen . 
as for washington's performance in the title role -- i figured i'd have to address it sooner or later considering the amount of attention it's received -- he is top notch , though still boring . 
how is that possible ? 
well , he does what jewison wanted him to do perfectly . 
unfortunately what jewison asked him to do is a load of crap . 
what a waste of a great performer . 
speaking of wastes , why the hell did john hannah agree to do this ? 
he's an extremely talented actor and i love him dearly , but what is he doing here ? 
to call his character ( along with schreiber's and unger's ) a stick figure would be a gross understatement . 
all three of them come off as veritable mother theresas , as benevolent as do-gooders come . 
if they're to play a major part in this movie , why not make them real people , with real feelings and emotions ? 
look : if you're going to make a formula movie , don't undermine the formula . 
courtroom dramas can be fun , but this is ridiculous . 
not only is it trite , it's boring . 
all feature film directors who cut their teeth on music videos , please raise your hands . 
thank you for identifying yourselves ; now would you all please go away . 
your influence has to rank as one of the most annoying trends in filmmaking in the last decade , and it shows no sign of abating any time soon . 
it isn't just the strobe light quality of your twenty-cuts-per-minute editing , or the numbing over-use of popular music artists on the soundtracks which makes me suspicious of any film advertised " featuring the music of . . . " no , it is a kind of cynicism you have perfected , banking on the idea that no one will care about the lack of a story if you include enough bells and whistles . 
welcome to the club , scott kalvert . 
your adaptation of the basketball diaries is loud and one-dimensional , serving only as the vehicle for a performance by leonardo dicaprio that is better in pieces than it is as a whole . 
dicaprio stars as jim carroll , the new york poet/songwriter/ performer on whose autobiographical writings the film is based . 
as the film opens , jim is a budding high school basketball star given to petty thievery and getting drunk with buddies mickey ( mark wahlberg ) , pedro ( james madio ) and neutron ( patrick mcgaw ) . 
one night , jim graduates from inhalants to cocaine , and shortly thereafter to heroin . 
jim's addiction to the drug starts him on a downhill spiral , as he is kicked off the basketball team by his coach ( bruno kirby ) , kicked out of his home by his mother ( lorraine bracco ) , and drops out of school . 
along with mickey and pedro , jim becomes a victim of the street , living from fix to fix and sinking lower and lower . 
the basketball diaries has been bouncing around as a project for years , but the sticking point has always been that jim carroll as a character was too unsympathetic and too much a loner . 
screenwriter bryan goluboff created the three characters who act as carroll's posse , resulting in a jim carroll who is just as unsympathetic , but now with equally unsympathetic friends . 
as a film , the basketball diaries may be intended primarily as a cautionary tale , a 100 minute long " just say no " public service announcement , but as drama it is monumentally ineffective because it is impossible to care much about anyone in the movie . 
jim is sort of a jerk even before he becomes a junkie , but i suppose that his pseudo-sensitive poetry and his devotion to his terminally ill friend are intended to balance that out . 
perhaps we are expected to see jim as one of those " good kids who falls in with the wrong crowd " that every parent believes his or her troubled child to be ; i saw him simply as part of the bad crowd . 
without a character who changes in any appreciable way , the basketball diaries rapidly degenerates into a collection of crimes committed by jim and his strung-out cohorts , all choreographed to an oppressively loud soundtrack . 
director scott kalvert doesn't have many scenes with intrinsic dramatic impact with which to work , so he substitutes silly slow-motion photography , self-consciously funky camera angles and choppy editing . 
on only one occasion , when a steady pan around a room where jim is trying to detox makes it appear that the walls are closing in , are any of the gimmicks effective . 
mostly , they just draw attention to how hollow the story is . 
they also don't allow leonardo dicaprio's performance to be as strong as it could have been . 
for every impressive moment , like his desperate attempt to get his mother to give him money , there is a scene where kalvert pulls too much of the focus to his own camera theatrics . 
dicaprio is most effective when he is playing off other actors , particularly a fine sequence featuring ernie hudson as an ex-junkie who tries to help jim straighten out , but kalvert won't let character interaction define this story . 
he wants to turn dicaprio into a rock star , shooting him in dramatic fashion but denying him the opportunity to do much acting . 
at isolate moments , the basketball diaries is a fine showcase for dicaprio's talents . 
far more frequently , it looks like kalvert is trying to imagine what a long form velvet underground video might have looked like . 
depending on your degree of cinematic acumen , last man standing is either a ) a prohibition-era remake of akira kurosawa's 1961 classic yojimbo ; b ) a prohibition-era remake of sergio leone's 1964 classic a fistful of dollars ; c ) a prohibition-era action drama with a completely original story-line . 
new line is certainly counting on the fact that there are far more potential viewers in category ( c ) than in the other two combined , much as the recent remakes of diabolique and the vanishing counted on avoiding such comparisons . 
the fact is that there is yet another way of looking at last man standing , which is as the first film version of the story which nods to the _real_ source material , the dashiell hammett novel _red harvest_ . 
it also shows that kurosawa and leone knew better what to do with that material than hammett himself . 
this time around , the man with no name is played by bruce willis , a fellow with a shady history of an undefined nature who rolls into the texas border town of jericho one day on his way to mexico . 
by all appearances , jericho is well on its way to becoming a ghost town , with the few remaining inhabitants generally belonging to one of two bootlegging operations fighting for control of liquor coming over the border . 
one is headed by an irishman named doyle ( david patrick kelly ) ; the other is run by chicago-connected italian mobster strozzi ( ned eisenberg ) . 
calling himself john smith , the man decides that there is money to be made from the conflict , and hires himself out as an enforcer to doyle's side . 
but smith's allegiance is as uncertain as his name , and he begins to play the two sides against each other while trying to stay one step ahead of both of them . 
viewers familiar with both previous incarnations of this story will find virtually nothing radically changed from a plotting standpoint , and that alone should make last man standing somewhat more respectable than other recent hollywood remakes-cum-bastardizations . 
there is the happily ineffectual lawman ( bruce dern ) , the unhappily detained object of one of the bosses' affections ( karina lombard ) , the barkeep who becomes our anti-hero's only friend ( william sanderson ) , suspicious lieutenants ( christopher walken and michael imperioli ) to question the bosses' trust in smith , a brutal beating , and a big fire . 
director walter hill gives the proceedings his usual injection of steroids , including a pair of guns for willis which have the ability to propel an assailant backward with sufficient thrust to achieve escape velocity , but at least he doesn't try to turn the story into a slasher film or a buddy picture . 
what he _does_ do is nearly as big a mistake , and that is to provide a running voice-over narration by willis which rings of the standard hard-boiled style of pulp detective fiction . 
yes , that narration is full of cliches , but those are are not particularly troubling . 
the problem is that both yojimbo and a fistful of dollars succeeded largely on the inscrutability of their lead characters . 
they were a mystery , to the other characters in the film and to the audience , their motives never entirely clear even after they have acted , and that quality contributed to their almost mythical status . 
with john smith's voice chattering on in the background and allowing us into his every thought , he becomes more mundane , just another tough guy trying to stay alive . 
it feels like a hammett novel , all right , and hill can plead faithfulness to his text for his choice , but it simply doesn't work . 
the narration allows the man with no name to take us into his confidence , and the man with no name takes _no one_ into his confidence . 
even if you walk into last man standing as a blank slate , i can't imagine it being much more than a heavily armed minor distraction . 
willis tones down his macho swagger as the taciturn smith , but there is still a level on which he always seems like he is counting on being tougher than everyone else rather than smarter than everyone else . 
christopher walken plays doyle's brutal henchman as a slight variation on his gallery of soft-spoken psychos , and there isn't another single character whom makes even the slightest impression . 
with no compelling antagonist for smith , there is no build-up towards the expected showdown , and when it does come , that showdown is over so quickly you wonder what all the fuss was about . 
cinematographer lloyd ahern ( who also did the only noteworthy work on hill's 1995 flop wild bill ) creates some nifty sunburned vistas , but his work is only to keep the eye distracted between the spurts of gunfire and the next bit of counter-productive narration . 
sometimes when someone sees a lackluster remake of a revered original , they'll wonder what all the talk was about . 
in the case of last man standing , it is those who know the originals who will wonder what all that talking was about . 
okay , bear with me y'all , cause first off i have to get this off my chest : 
what the hell is up with that damn crab ? ? ? 
whew . okay . 
cause that same clip shown over and over again was beginning to get on my nerves towards the end , as cute as the crab maybe . 
even i know that you need more footage than * that * . 
and that wasn't the only thing getting on my nerves . 
the cutesy gimmicks , saccharine sweet score / soundtrack and the pretty young faces of sarah michelle gellar ( as amanda ) and sean patrick flannery ( as tom ) might have held some appeal during , oh , say the first 10 minutes of the movie . 
at first the movie moves along at a quick , interesting pace . 
it is speedily established that something magical is about to happen to amanda when she encounters a totally random fairy godfather type person on the street , whose aforementioned crab follows her everywhere and just * doesn't * die . 
a ridiculous concept , yes , but at this point i'm willing to accept it because i'm willing to accept that this is how amanda's life is changed , how her powers are received . 
later on , the movie can't seem to decide whether these powers come from this fairy godfather or from amanda falling in with tom . 
and this is why the clips of the crab were annoying ; they weren't just repetitive , they were out of place and unnecessary . 
the plot stumbles along at an uneven speed , sometimes dwelling too long on a particular development ( amanda suddenly becoming a great chef , her falling in love with tom , etc . ) , sometimes moving on too quickly for its own good . 
some places the plot just doesn't make sense , sometimes it's way too contrived ( the crab bit , for example ) , and sometimes too corny ( peaches emitting dry ice . 
can't beat that ) . 
all in all the plot seemed fragmented , unconnected . 
not romantic at all , and only funny in some places . 
so , okay , do the magic powers come from the crab ? 
or the fairy godfather ? 
she can * float * now too ? 
and all of a sudden , instead of just making dry ice come out of peaches , she can put her emotions into her food ? 
tom all of a sudden just accepts amanda's " witchcraft " in the end ? 
would people really dine in a restaurant that resembles life after death in tupac's video ? 
what the hell is up with that damn crab ? 
it is unfortunate , because i liked the basic premise of the movie , until it became too fantastical and tiresome . 
the film seemed to skirt around a serious theme or at least * a * theme for a while , but towards the end it resolved to show us long flashback clips and 5 minutes of people crying at their tables . 
the humor was good in some places ( nolan gets the funniest bits , including that incomprehensible , totally random thing with the dolls ) . 
gellar and flannery are qualified actors , and gellar has a particular charm , but i much prefer her playing the saucy buffy ( or even annette in the upcoming " cruel intentions " ) than this sorry excuse for a character . 
it's almost funny sometimes to see these two trying so hard to make the dialogue sound better than it is , or trying to make the relationship seem more plausible . 
the supporting character nolan was a highlight , though he reminded me a bit of kevin in " you've got mail " ( see footnotes ) . 
and , as always , typical of a chick flick / romantic comedy , there's a seemingly endless romantic soundtrack in the background , cued up at all the right places . 
this sort of got on the nerves after a while , too . 
 " simply irresistible " is not hard to understand , light , funny in some places , and generally disappointing because it can't draw the line between romance and protracted sap , between humor and tired slapstick . 
and how could i refrain from making a pun ? 
 . 
 . 
 . 
 " simply irresistible " is all too easy to resist . 
 ( first viewing , 2/6/99 ) 
 * did anyone else think this was a tad bit similar to " you've got mail " ( or " the shop around the corner " ) ? 
business rivals fall in love . 
female counterpart's business is in danger of being shut down . 
female as mother- like figure guiding her . 
the annoying , hysterical ex-girlfriends . 
 * i _really_ like sarah michelle gellar's wardrobe . 
i went to blair witch project 2 : book of shadows with the highest of hopes . 
the original film , released last summer , was genuinely scary and terrifying ; i hoped that this movie would live up to its predecessor . 
unfortunately , my hopes were soon dashed . 
as the movie opens , the audience is shown pseudo-documentary clips of burkittsville , maryland residents being interviewed about the sudden tourist influx to their town as a result of the original blair witch project movie . 
it's a mostly humorous , self-aware poke at the media hype and hysteria surrounding the first film . 
during this segment , we are introduced to the protagonist , a young man who sells blair witch-related memorabilia from his website . 
the movie then cuts to a title that informs us that what we are about to see occurred one year previously . 
we see the same young man that was selling blair witch paraphernalia , but now he is confined in a mental institution the sort of which one only finds in bad horror movies . 
we see him having some sort of disgusting white goo unconvincingly forced down his nose while a cigarette-smoking doctor luridly leers above him . 
we see him throwing himself wildly around a padded room ; we see him cowering naked in a shower stall as a fire hose is turned on him . 
no explanation is provided for why he is in the mental institution ; in fact , these scenes are barely referred to again . 
i had a sinking feeling during these opening scenes ; generally , a hospital scene that is set with poor lighting , filthy interiors , and evil doctors is a sure sign that you are in the throes of a truly horrible movie . 
the movie cuts again , this time to the present . 
the young man , whose name is jeffrey ( played by jeffrey donovan -- as in the first movie , the character names are identical to the actors' names , although this movie admits up front that it is fictional , so there's no reason for the practice this time around ) , is rounding up a group of people that he will be leading into the woods that weekend for the " blair witch hunt , " which is a promotional gimmick he came up with and sells on his website . 
we meet tristen and steven , a young couple who are writing a book about the blair witch experience . 
steven is a skeptic , believing the whole thing to be the result of mass hysteria . 
tristen , on the other hand , believes that there may be some truth to the rumors of supernatural occurrence . 
she is wan and soft-spoken ; she complains that the radio is playing too loudly . 
 ( she also complains that she feels nauseated ; i knew immediately that the character was pregnant , and my intuition was confirmed a few scenes later when kim psychomagically susses it out . 
how did i know ? 
because in bad movies , nauseated women are always pregnant . ) 
the fourth member of their party is erica , a wiccan with flowing hair and wide eyes who wants to prove that the blair witch was a good witch , not evil . 
they pick up the fifth and final team member in a cemetery . 
kim is dressed completely in black , has extreme goth-style makeup on , and occasionally displays seemingly psychic abilities , but otherwise seems to be the most intelligent and reasonable person out of the entire bunch . 
presumably she wanted to be picked up in the cemetery just for dramatic effect ; it's never explained . 
the party of five heads off into the woods as promised . 
they reach the crumbling ruins of the foundation of rustin parr's house and set up camp , complete with extensive video equipment with which to record the night's events . 
there is a brief encounter with a rival blair witch tour group who had planned to camp at that site as well , but after a few words are exchanged , the rival group huffs off and makes camp elsewhere . 
the movie veers off at this point to spend many long , long minutes showing the drinking party that ensues after the sun goes down . 
sexual innuendoes are tossed around , much hard liquor , beer , and pot is consumed , and nothing much else happens . 
this would be a great point to get up and go to the bathroom if necessary . 
the next day , the team wakes up and discovers that their camera equipment has been completely trashed , and that steven and tristen's manuscript paper is fluttering down from the sky in shreds , like snow . 
the videotapes are missing , but thanks to a psychic intuition from kim , they discover the videotapes buried underneath the foundation of the house , " right where the original blair witch tapes were found ! " 
ooh . 
spooky . 
the team goes back to jeffrey's house -- a creepy old civil war-era warehouse in the heart of the woods -- to regroup and review the tapes . 
they soon discover that the tapes mysteriously skip five hours of the night . 
wacky hijinks ensue . 
tristen starts having weird dreams in which she is the blair witch , everybody starts finding these weird rune-like burn marks on their bodies , steven and erica have some highly disturbing mutual hallucinations , and everything pretty much goes to hell in a handbasket . 
throughout the entire ordeal , jeffrey and the others continue to scrutinize the videotapes , which seem to have some kind of weird images on them at about the point that the time jumps ; eventually tristen wanders in , mutters something about " reverse , " and from this they somehow realize that they have to play the tapes backwards . 
when they do this , they discover what really happened during the five lost hours . 
 ( one of the things they see on the videotape is footage of themselves burying the videotapes . 
okay , if the videotapes were being buried , then how were they recording themselves . . . oh , 
nevermind . ) 
this movie was awful . 
simply awful . 
the characters are broadly-drawn caricatures that are never allowed any depth or development . 
erica is the nature-loving wiccan . 
tristen is the weak and sympathetic woman . 
steven is the overbearing asshole . 
kim is the antisocial goth girl . 
old , tired cliches were used to illustrate these caricatures . 
how do we know tristen is weak and sympathetic ? 
because she's pregnant ! 
how do we know kim is an antisocial goth girl ? 
because she wears a lot of eye makeup ! 
how do we know the local sheriff is a bad guy ? 
because he has jagged teeth and talks like he's straight out of " deliverance " ! 
this is weak storytelling at its worst . 
rather than taking the time to flesh out the characters and make them truly sympathetic , the writer chose to give each one a few stereotypical characteristics , in an attempt to use some cinematic shorthand and thereby skip straight to the action . 
it didn't work . 
on top of being poorly developed , most of the characters were either seriously unlikable or patently stupid . 
 ( " honey , you just had a miscarriage out in the woods and got medical attention at a hospital that looks like it belongs in a bad slasher movie . 
let's get on a plane home . " 
 " no . 
i am having these bizarre nightmares and seeing strange visions and i want to find out what's going on . " 
 " ok . " ) 
frankly , by the end of the movie , i was rooting for the witch . 
i also felt that there was simply too much blood 'n' gore in this film . 
the first movie worked by never showing us the horror . 
the witch was a palpable presence in that movie , but we never saw it ; we never saw anything , in fact . 
the horror was all off-screen , and thus our imaginations worked overtime to envision what it might possibly be . 
this is the hallmark of a truly creepy and disturbing horror movie . 
blair witch 2 dispensed with such niceties and went straight for the gross-out . 
this was evident from the opening scenes of the mad doctors forcing white goo down jeffrey's throat , and continued throughout the film as the audience is treated to occasional confusing and disorienting footage of what appears to be a ritual massacre of some sort . 
knives plunge into flesh , bloody fingers trail off into the darkness , and none of it is explained until the very end , when it was too late for me to care . 
this movie didn't stop with showing us the gore , either ; it went for broke and showed us everything . 
by the end of the movie , there are no questions remaining about the missing five hours . 
it is all explained ; in fact , it is all shown on-screen in loving detail . 
i confess to being someone who prefers horror movies in which you never see the monster , or see only brief glimpses , mere suggestions of what the monster is ; it is not because i find the monster so terrifying , but because i find the absence of the monster to be infinitely more terrifying . 
i have seen interviews with the director in which he suggested that there is no " monster , " that all of the evil was perpetrated only by the human mind . 
i found this to be a miserably poor explanation ; if it was in fact the director's intent , then he needs to have some words with the writer , because it was not made clear at all . 
 ( i know a lot of people who like to go to parties and get drunk and stoned out of their minds ; none of them has ever gone on a murderous rampage and then experienced mass hallucinations with a group of other people for the next week or so . 
and if there was no witch , then what about the vanishing tree ? 
the snowfall of manuscript paper ? 
hm ? ) 
blair witch 2 : book of shadows was a horrible movie . 
from the poorly-written characters to the implausible story to the plot inconsistencies to the gross-out shots , it was a bad effort through and through . 
i'm giving this stinker . 
normally , the worst that i would ever rate a movie would be . 
but the total waste of time that is blazing saddles is , compounded by the fact that this movie is incredibly offensive , helped me come to the big goose egg . 
i'm not sure what the hell mel brooks was thinking when he made this thing , or if he was even thinking at all . 
maybe in mel's little mind a horse being knocked unconscious because of a punch to the face is funny . 
in mine , it's not . 
or maybe mel graduated from the spike lee school of filmmaking . 
because only the self-righteous lee uses the n-word more often in his films than brooks did in this one . 
at least lee has the smarts to realize that nobody is going to find that term amusing . 
brooks bandies it about like he figures the audience will be rolling in the aisles every time they hear it . 
wrong mel ! 
i would call you a boob mel , but that insults breasts everywhere . 
this idiotic attempt at a comedy centers on the evil lieutenant governor's ( harvey korman ) attempts to clear out a town so he can buy up the land cheap and sell it to the railroad . 
he sends his goons to run the townsfolk out . 
but the town appeals to the governor ( mel brooks in one of many uninspired , and unfunny roles ) to send them a new sheriff to protect them . 
the governor pawns the task off to korman's character hedley lamarr . 
 ( i can tell you are rolling off your chairs right now just thinking of all the humor in that name . ) 
lamarr decides to send the town a black sheriff ( gasp ) in the hopes that the town will be so disgusted at the prospect of a black man living among them that they will all just leave . 
hold on , i've got to stop while these gales of laughter pass . 
it's just too funny . 
racism passing as humor -- gosh why didn't anybody ever think of that one before ? 
oh wait , i think somebody might have -- they are called the kkk . 
i'm not calling brooks a racist -- but i am calling him an insensitive bastard who wouldn't know what was funny if it hit him over the head . 
but i digress . 
anyway , the black sheriff rides into town amid a flurry of townsfolk using the n-word . 
golly , will the hilarity just never end ? 
he ends up joining forces with a drunk ( gene wilder ) , who happens to be the former fastest gun in the west . 
together , they save the day from evil . 
not one person in this movie gives a decent performance . 
wilder looks like he is recovering from a head injury for most of the movie , and korman looks embarrassed to be a part of the movie . 
ok , he really didn't -- but he should have . 
the films star cleavon little goes along with the black jokes as if they were discussing the time of day . 
i did not laugh once during this whole sorry experience . 
i admit to starting to snicker on a couple of occasions . 
actually , the end started to look as if it was going to have some promise , but alas , it ended up being as crappy as the rest of the movie . 
i can say with full confidence that blazing saddles has no redeeming qualities whatsoever . 
mel brooks would be doing the world a favor if he burned every last copy of this film . 
2 days in the valley is more or less a pulp fiction knock off . 
it basically involves how a bunch of quirky characters in the los angeles area end up having their lives become intertwined in some very unusual ways . 
i'm not going into much greater detail than that , since it would take forever to explain , and quite frankly , i'm not willing to spend any more time on it than the 2 hours that i've already wasted . 
while it tries very hard to be pulp fiction , 2 days in the valley falls way short . 
this is quite a condemnation considering the cast includes danny aiello , james spader and jeff daniels . 
while the story isn't much , and the dialogue and characters rate only marginally better , 2 days in the valley does have a couple of bright spots . 
james spader's character , while not much better than the rest , is at least fun to watch in a sick sort of way . 
and we do get to see a nice cat fight between uber babes teri hatcher and charlize theron ( in her first role ) . 
you know a movie isn't that good when the highlight is a brawl between two women . 
even if they are both gorgeous . 
i will give the writers some credit for the fairly clever ways in which they managed to intersect the lives of this group of characters that would have otherwise never interacted . 
but marveling at that ingenuity is a far cry from actually enjoying the result . 
while some of the characters and their respective stories are fairly interesting , they inevitably are brought down as they intersect with the other half of the characters that i really cared absolutely nothing about . 
if i were to put a number on it , only about half of the story and half the characters in this movie were particularly interesting or otherwise enjoyable to watch . 
this is the sort of movie that only a huge fan of one or more of the cast members should rent , and even then prepare for disappointment . 
not even charlize theron being naked would get me to sit through this movie again . 
or at least not all of it anyway . 
what would inspire someone who cannot write or act to pen and star in a movie ? 
a better question , what would inspire a studio to produce said movie ? 
if you have an answer , let me know . 
foolish , the new movie written by and starring master p is a jaw-droppingly horrible film , one with no redeeming value socially , cinematically or otherwise . 
comedically it has some potential , but only in its stand-up comedy moments , which i can turn on comedy central for . 
master p stars as fifty dollah' ( beat that ! ) as a mobster ( i think ) who is trying to start a comedy club/act with his little brother foolish ( eddie griffin ) . 
but the two of them have to deal with an angry mob boss ( played by andrew dice clay , for the very first time entertaining ) , a stubborn club owner and family problems ( the latter in foolish is a perfect example of roger ebert's " idiot plot , " if everyone here wasn't an idiot , there would be no problem ) 
so what does foolish have to offer beside a bunch of idiotic character names ? 
not a hell of a lot . 
as i have mentioned , master p cannot act or write . 
he acts like the rapper that he is . 
the occasional despair that his script requires him to exhibit is excruciatingly forced , as are his warm and fuzzy scenes with his little bro . 
as for his script -- well , i suppose he delivers what one would expect from a musical artist with no previous screenwriting experience . 
if you haven't yet figured it out , that is not saying much . 
co-star eddie griffin ( really the star of the show ) is quite a different story . 
the fact of the matter is that griffin , whose most significant screen outing to date is probably the mildly successful tv show malcolm and eddie on the fledgling upn network , is an extremely talented comedian , stand-up and otherwise . 
he has much in common with chris tucker ( rush hour , money talks ) in how quickly and effortlessly his speech flows from his lips . 
he spouts profanity with impressive dexterity ( to the extent which that can be done ) , and while i hope that does not become his trademark it works in a few scenes in this movie . 
and indeed , i laughed at a few stand-up scenes here , but from a feature-length movie i expect more . 
foolish provided me with no reason to care for these characters . 
every scene which has any potential for dramatic impact is effectively diffused by either a stupid joke ( in a scene where tension escalates between the two brothers , foolish blurts out towards his jewelry-sporting sibling " you lay one hand on me and this cemetary is going to be a gold rush " ) or something even more idiotic such as foolish smashing his own car ( to which i said , a bit too loudly for the occasion " huh ? " ) after getting slightly upset with his wife . 
believe me when i say that there is nothing in foolish that warrants parting with your hard-earned $8 . 
you'll get more laughs from watching 30 minutes of comedy central or any virtually any sitcom if you don't have cable . 
eddie griffin fans may enjoy this derivative ( although offensive ) yarn , but everyone else should stay the hell away . 
&#137 ; 
synopsis : a novelist struggling with his latest work buys a weird brain with a protruding eyeball encased in a jar . 
the brain exerts its evil influence upon the novelist and his secretary , while his wife disapproves . 
meanwhile , a loan shark in need of a shave tries to leave his profession . 
comments : why is this movie called possessed by the night ? 
it's hard to speculate . 
most of this film takes place during the day , and the only thing possessing anyone is an icky , pulsating , bubbling brain thingie in a jar . 
in case you haven't picked up on this yet , possessed by the night is a bottom-of-the-barrel " thriller " ( i use the term " thriller " loosely here ) which is really cheap and bad . 
the plot , which sounds like a cheesy pulp science fiction story from the 1950s , actually serves one purpose : to exploit nude women as often as possible . 
writing a movie review for a film like this proves oddly challenging . 
there's really not much to say . 
the acting is lousy ; although , occasionally , the attempts at acting are so absurd that they garner a chuckle or two from the audience . 
most humorous is frank sivero , who plays murray , the novelist's agent . 
he is so horrible in this role that one can't help but be amused . 
the plot sucks . 
nearly half the film is devoted to a loser loan shark who wants out of the profession , even though he has only limited relevance to the movie as a whole . 
the dialogue stinks . 
a loan shark , for instance , tells another how much he loves bimbos , which is something the audience really doesn't need to know . 
everything about possessed by the night is second rate , even the film credits . 
as the names of the not-so-talented film crew scrolled by at the end , joseph scales came up , credited as being " assistsant to foley artist . " 
someone could have used an editor ! 
to be honest , the film is basically an excuse to flash frontal nudity and show some sex scenes . 
playboy playmate shannon tweed , after all , is the star here . 
i suppose that if one wanted this sort of thing , he would like this movie . 
why did i give this turkey two stars and not one ? 
as a bad movie , it is unintentionally funny enough to keep someone passingly interested in the film . 
if you feel possessed to see possessed by the night , however , i'd recommend you exorcise this impulse and watch something else . 
okay , okay . 
maybe i wasn't in the mood to watch a mindless action movie ; i am the same person that liked lethal weapon iii , even while admitting that it wasn't as good as the others . 
howewer , the latest segal picture didn't look that bad , and since none of my friends would go see a woody allen movie even if i paid them , i went to see it expecting a mild die hard rehash . 
boy , was i wrong ! 
in the first half of the movie , we are already assaulted with segal's acting , ( he is not simply wooden ; he is like a wall ) , gratuitous violence , an incredible plot , sexist and even more gratuitous nudity , and bad lines that obviously were meant as jokes . 
by the end , it is obvious that hundreds of navy men are no match for thirty armed special forces soldiers . 
not once in the movie did segal appear worried or undecided , which did not do much for increasing the unexistent suspense . 
of course , in movies like these , there must be a sidekick , and a love interest . 
in these one we are given a two for one package in the form of a playboy model ( in the movie ) , which only functions as a supposed comic relief ( by the way of extremely stupid unfunny lines ) , and to have watering eyes and look away every time something bad happens in the movie . 
oh , of course , she appears naked from the waist up , and , of course , segal kisses her at the end after no development of their relationship ; they did not even seem to be interested in each other . 
i have never seen so little chemistry between two people in a movie . 
often , the villain saves the movie ; unfortunately , the villains here are cartoonish , stupid and unfunny , unmenacing . 
how many movies have psycho ex-special forces bad guys ? 
too many . 
i was able to predict the action all throughout the movie , including the moment where the sidekick saves the hero from certain death , the scene where the bad guy can kill the hero but proceeds to explain his plan to him , the scene where we are shown the hero's superiors are stupid , the scene where the bad guy loses his gun and has to fight the hero hand to hand , etc . . . 
simply said , this is movie-making by the numbers , boring , and potentially offensive in going for the lowest common denominator of the audience . 
my recommendation : if you go see it , bring a watch . 
you'll be looking at it for most of the movie . 
my . 
rent die hard . 
read a book . 
stare at the sky . 
do not waste your time on this worthless piece of celluloid . 
the real sad thing is that there are a lot of movies out that i would rather have seen ; once again , dragged in by my friends , which by the way , liked the movie halfheartedly . 
they probably like wrestling too : - ) . 
in life , eddie murphy and martin lawrence play two young men wrongfully convicted of murder and sentenced to life in prison . 
after about an hour of watching this movie , you begin to realize how their characters feel . 
fortunately , for audience members there's a chance to escape the nearest exit . 
this , undoubtedly , is eddie murphy's worst movie and that's an accomplishment . 
remember the golden child , harlem nights ? 
compared to life , they look like citizen kane . 
life is long , predictable , foul-mouthed and only intermittently funny . 
its 100-minute running time feels like 100 years . 
robert ramsey and matthew stone's script basically consist of murphy and lawrence referring to everyone around them as " motherf . . . s " or " n . . . . . 
s . " 
you lose count how many times both those obnoxious , offensive words are used . 
and if that all it takes to write a script , than any illiterate jackass can sit at a word processor and compose a movie . 
but , like life , it will probably stink . 
to be honest , the screening audience surrounding me in the theater yucked it up . 
but these were the same people who howled at all the flatulence and fat jokes as well . 
life is as sophisticated as a belch . 
it's crude and stereotypical . 
years ago , movies stereotypically portrayed blacks subservient , second-class people , good for being only maids and servants . 
for the most part , the lot of blacks and other racial groups have improved . 
but a new , more insidious stereotype is creeping into movies . 
in many recent films , through actors such as murphy and chris tuckers , blacks are presented as fast-talking , conniving , scam artists or hip-hop , gun-crazy , sex-crazed youths . 
both sets of caricatures are demeaning . 
and the fault does not rest with the actors . 
they have to eat , too . 
it is with the people who write the scripts , the studios who green-light the projects and the audiences who accept these portrayals without protest . 
life's only redeeming virtue is the artistry of makeup legend rick baker who flawlessly ages murphy and lawrence into 90 year olds . 
otherwise , life is an embarrassment , a blot on the resumes of those associated with it . 
see it at your own risk . 
there may not be a critic alive who harbors as much affection for shlock monster movies as i do . 
i delighted in the sneaky-smart entertainment of ron underwood's big-underground-worm yarn tremors ; i even giggled at last year's critically-savaged big-underwater-snake yarn anaconda . 
something about these films causes me to lower my inhibitions and return to the saturday afternoons of my youth , spent in the company of ghidrah , the creature from the black lagoon and the blob . 
deep rising , a big-undersea-serpent yarn , doesn't quite pass the test . 
sure enough , all the modern monster movie ingredients are in place : a conspicuously multi-ethnic/multi-national collection of bait . . . excuse 
me , characters ; an isolated location , here a derelict cruise ship in the south china sea ; some comic relief ; a few cgi-enhanced gross-outs ; and at least one big explosion . 
there are too-cheesy-to-be-accidental elements , like a sleazy shipping magnate ( anthony heald ) who also appears to have a doctorate in marine biology , or a slinky international jewel thief ( famke janssen ) whose white cotton tank top hides a heart of gold . 
as it happens , deep rising is noteworthy primarily for the mechanical manner in which it spits out all those ingredients . 
a terrorist crew , led by squinty-eyed mercenary hanover ( wes studi ) and piloted by squinty-eyed boat captain finnegan ( treat williams ) , shows up to loot the cruise ship ; the sea monsters show up to eat the mercenary crew ; a few survivors make it to the closing credits . 
and up go the lights . 
it's hard to work up much enthusiasm for this sort of joyless film-making , especially when a monster moview should make you laugh every time it makes you scream . 
here , the laughs are provided almost entirely by kevin j . o'connor , generally amusing as the crew's fraidy-cat mechanic . 
writer/director stephen sommers seems most concerned with creating a tone of action-horror menace -- something over-populated with gore-drenched skeletons , something where the gunfire and special effects are taken a bit too seriously . 
deep rising is missing that one unmistakable cue that we're expected to have a ridiculous good time , not hide our eyes . 
case it point , comparing deep rising to its recent cousin anaconda . 
in deep rising , one of the creature's victims is regurgitated back into view , partially digested and still alive . 
he shrieks in horror at his freakish appearance and pain , in a moment a bit too disturbing to be laughable . 
in anaconda , we also see a regurgitated victim , partially digested and still alive . 
he looks at another character . . . and 
winks . 
make no mistake , deep rising has anaconda beat all to heck when it comes to technical proficiency and pacing . 
it's also gloomy , uninspired and not nearly enough fun . 
i don't ask much of my monster movies , but i do ask that they act like monster movies . 
you don't have to show me a fantastically impressive , massive beast with tentacles a-flailing . 
just show me the massive beast burping , and i'll figure you get the point . 
renee zellweger stars as sonia , a young jewish wife and mother frustrated by the constraints of her hasidic community in brooklyn . 
her husband ( glenn fitzgerald ) is a religious scholar whose all-in-a-day's-work attitude on sex fails to tame the " fire " she feels within , as so she confesses to the rebbe ( after hearing her fiery confession , the rebbe suddenly gets frisky with his pleasantly surprised wife--and dies the next morning ) . 
sensing her frustration , her husband's brother ( christopher eccleston ) gives her a job in his jewelry brokering business in exchange for raw , passionless sex that just fans sonia's still-burning flame . 
on the job , sonia befriends ramon ( allen payne ) , a cool blast of hunky puerto rican water who does his own jewelry designs when not working as a grunt in an upscale jewelry store . 
can fire-taming be far be that far behind for the ever-smoldering sonia ? 
just about everything in writer-director boaz yakin's rings false , starting with the improbably cast zellweger , who does an adequate enough acting job but simply looks too waspy for the role . 
a better fit would have been julianna margulies , who outshines zellweger as sonia's take-no-crap sister-in-law . 
some of sonia's baby steps toward liberation , such as indulging in a non-kosher egg roll in chinatown , come off as silly . 
yakin attempts to spice up the proceedings with a touch of magical realism--in the form of the recurring presence of sonia's long-dead brother's ghost--make the story feel even more trite than it already is . 
 " i didn't know what to expect . 
it's like something you chase for so long , but then you don't know how to react when you get it . 
i still don't know how to react . " 
--michael jordan , on winning his first nba championship in 1991 . . . or , 
my thoughts after meeting him on november 21 , 1997 
there're so many things to criticize about i don't know where to start . 
recommendation : turn off your brain - don't be like me , decreasing the rating everyday because i think about it too much . 
a comet is about to strike earth , causing a catastrophe similar to the extinction level event ( e . l . e . ) that wiped out the dinosaurs . 
what follows is the story of a president's bid to think for the good of his people , a rising reporter , the love story of two teenagers ( one of whom discovered the comet ) , and a team of astronauts on the ship `messiah' to save the world . 
firstly , there is nothing outstandingly inferior about the making of the film ( nor is there anything outstandingly good about it ) , but the plot holes make the film corny and stupid . 
to be honest , i was more moved by the trailer than the film itself ( which isn't saying much ) . 
mimi leder's follow-up to `the peacemaker' is equally incompetent , with all the big stars wasted . 
 ( perhaps i'm just annoyed that the release of `the peacemaker' in the us overshadowed a far superior thriller , `the assignment' . ) 
it is very obvious that the title not only represents the big boom that will result from the collision , but also connotes the heavy impact on human lives . 
however , the film simply fails on that note . 
the effects are worn-out , the substandard screenplay limited the acting , and the director continued her sad run in terms of good-film-making credentials . 
she's still making good money though . 
t ? a leoni's unfortunate character , the news reporter , is the foundation of the story and of the cast . 
but the film suffers from too many characters that do not need to be explored . 
robert duvall's aging astronaut is lifeless , and morgan freeman's president is restricted to , well , a righteous president ( which means he's not interesting at all ) . 
leoni's character is the only appealing one , and is played with reasonable conviction ( but a rather peculiar showing when reporting for msnbc ) , but was definitely undervalued by the director and screenwriters . 
warning : spoilers included ( but a lot of it is irrelevant and predictable anyway ) . 
plot holes , plot holes , plot holes . 
now , e . l . e . 
is threatening to exterminate more than 99% of the human race , and they send eight puny little nuclear bombs up there ? 
where's the logic ? 
leder could have at least made it plausible with 20 . 
and then it turns out that only a few percent of the world population actually perish , and those less selfish ones ( the ones that stayed at home ) were the victims . 
the film was almost mocking them , telling them they had died for nothing . 
i also fail to see how two teenagers , carrying a baby , would be the first to climb up the mountain/hill , even with a motorbike for a head-start . 
it's unlikely that the dust will take just two years to settle , but that doesn't really matter . 
building caves was a strategy mentioned in `dr . 
strangelove' , which proposed that people lived underground for one hundred or so years . 
now that is a more practical use for caves . 
what is the point of living in caves ? 
there is no , unlike `dr . 
strangelove' , any radioactivity outside to restrict exposure . 
how do plants grow ? 
if humans have the technology to keep plants alive in caves , there's no reason why they can't do it in the open . 
the president disclosed that other countries have been preparing their own caves . 
obviously this means that the other countries were informed a long time ago , and you can't be serious to say that nobody leaked the news to the media . 
in an important mission like that of the `messiah' , for that matter any mission , it is impossible that isn't sufficient fuel for an extra couple of hundred metres , needless to say tens of kilometres . 
this is not deep impact ? it's a frivolous cheap impact . 
but even with all that , some overacting , and a 3 . 4 rating , it's still watchable , just don't think about it . 
okay ? 
don't let this movie fool you into believing the romantic noirs of william shakespeare . 
no one will truly understand the heart and soul of this man except through his work , and this movie makes a vain attempt at that . 
any moves to ? glamorise' his life , which hollywood has an annoying tendency to do , will only subtract from his achievement rather than expound on his greatness . 
this movie about his life , although well written , puts too much make-up on a man whose life was probably more pork and potatoes , rather than lobster and champagne . 
oh well , let's fantasise onwards an assume that he was a bit of a flirtatious play-write , who falls in love with a beautiful woman ( gwyneth paltrow ) and from her inspiration , several plays develop - ? romeo and juliet' , and ? the twelfth night' . 
it is easier for me to believe that he had a wet dream and that's how all his plays develop , but please spare me all of this unnecessary melodrama . 
but i guess my version probably wouldn't draw a crowd or make a dollar on screen . 
so is there any justification in romanticising the man shakespeare , when all we need to do is read his work in order to find his soul . 
i think not . 
as for the oscars were they deserved by this movie ? 
i think not . 
in many aspects ? private ryan' and ? life is beautiful' were far superior movies , but one should never assume that this should be a criteria for winning an oscar , as time and again , for reasons unexplained , an undeserving movie will win the accolade . 
another sore point is the fact that gwyneth won the best female lead , over a more polished cate , but i guess if you go on enough about your grandfather dying and your nephew being hospitalised - people will start feeling sorry for you . 
it's a good thing most animated sci-fi movies come from japan , because " titan a . e . " is proof that hollywood doesn't have a clue how to do it . 
i don't know what this film is supposed to be about . 
from what i can tell it's about a young man named kale who's one of the last survivors of earth in the early 31st century who unknowingly possesses the key to saving and re-generating what is left of the human race . 
that's a fine premise for an action-packed sci-fi animated movie , but there's no payoff . 
the story takes the main characters all over the galaxy in their search for a legendary ship that the evil " dredge " aliens want to destroy for no apparent reason . 
so in the process we get a lot of spaceship fights , fistfights , blaster fights and more double-crosses than you can shake a stick at . 
there's so much pointless sci-fi banter it's too much to take . 
the galaxy here is a total rip-off of the " star wars " universe the creators don't bother filling in the basic details which makes the story confusing , the characters unmotivated and superficial and the plot just plain boring . 
despite the fantastic animation and special effects , it's just not an interesting movie . 
in the year 2029 , captain leo davidson ( mark wahlberg , " boogie nights " ) is training 'his' chimp pericles to pilot a pod from the usaf oberon space station . 
when an electromagnetic storm is encountered and pericles' pod is lost , davidson sets out unauthorized and lands thousands of years in the future on the " planet of the apes . " 
maybe if 20th century fox had set the proverbial 100 chimps in front of typewriters they would have gotten a better results than this adaptation of the pierre boulle novel by william broyles jr . ( " cast away " ) , and lawrence konner & mark d . rosenthal ( " mighty joe young " ) . 
director tim burton's unique look and style are nowhere to be found in this silly , pointless remake . 
davidson no sooner lands than he finds himself being swarmed by savages running in terror , whom he wisely joins . 
however , he's rounded up with the lot of them by the apes which rule this plant and handed over to slave trader limbo ( paul giamatti , " duets " ) . 
ari ( helena bonham carter , " fight club " ) , daughter of the illustrious senator sandar ( david warner , " titanic " ) and simian bleeding heart , believes humans should live with apes on equal standing , an unpopular notion . 
she takes a liking to leo , who she deems 'unusual . ' 
general thade ( tim roth , " lucky numbers " ) is of the opposite opinion , wishing for declaration of martial law that will allow him to annihilate the race . 
he's sweet on ari . 
it's relatively easy to see where this 'new' story is going from the onset , yet its ultimate revelation has gaping logic holes . 
the much ballyhooed 'surprise' ending is a nonsensical let down . 
an attempt at a love triangle , conveyed by ari and the human daena ( estella warren , " driven " ) giving each other 'back off' looks over leo , fails because he never develops a relationship with either of them . 
the lone sex scene is some hilarious foreplay between elder orangutan senator nado ( glenn shadix ) and his trophy wife nova ( burton's squeeze , lisa marie ) . 
guffaws will also likely greet charlton heston's cameo as thade's father , the one ape harboring a firearm ( ! ) who sputters some very familiar lines before dying . 
the only real success of the 2001 " planet of the apes " is rick baker's makeup , and even that's an iffy affair . 
no attempt was made to change the human whiteness of the actors' eyes , a real distraction amidst some otherwise impressive work . 
roth , warner and michael clarke duncan ( as thade's right hand man attar ) are given the most impressive makeovers . 
giamatti looks more like a skull than an ape and the female apes are too humanized to be given sexual appeal . 
tim roth delivers the most impressive acting job by getting the body language right - his nasty chimpanzee character leaps about , most spectacularly when mounting his steed , but even's he's undone by some obvious wire work . 
bonham carter delivers a goodly range of emotion from behind a stiff prosthetic , but is undone in turn by the silliness of the writing . 
most of the film has a set bound look which no amount of mist can cover . 
the ape's city resembles a dank complex of tree houses . 
the apes' military costumes ( colleen atwood , " sleepy hollow " ) as well as their field tents are reminiscent of eiko ishioka's work on coppola's " dracula . " 
that oriental flavor is also found in danny elfman's tribal , percussive score . 
 " planet of the apes " was the last blockbuster hope for the summer of 2001 , a dismal movie season that's going to the dogs . 
writing a screenplay for a thriller is hard . 
harder than pouring concrete under the texas sun . 
harder than building a bridge over troubled waters . 
and incidentally , a whole heck of a lot harder than writing a movie review . 
thrillers are all variations on a theme . 
you have a smart , resourceful , and powerful bad guy , who has a goal he has to meet . 
you have a noble and brave good guy , who has to protect the innocent , kill the bad guy , and not get killed himself in the process . 
the trick of thriller writing is doing all of this in an interesting and novel manner . 
this simple formula can lead to classic movies like north by northwest , high noon , or silence of the lambs , or big summer blockbusters like men in black , the fugitive , or air force one , or it can lead to utter dreck like masterminds , event horizon , kull the conqueror . . . . 
is anyone else getting depressed here ? 
point is , it's not enough to follow the formula . 
you've got to throw in something extra , something good and new and better than the last version . 
something to surprise and move all of us people who buy the tickets and the popcorn and the happy meals . 
this is a hard thing to do , but it is absolutely necessary in every way . 
without that something extra -- whether it's a great plot or a well-written screenplay , or great special effects or great locations or great casting or great performances or great big hungry dinosaurs -- the movie fails . 
that's why the jackal , with all its starpower , with all its budget , with all its hype , gets a big fat f . 
bruce willis is the bad guy , the jackal , a legendary killer for hire . 
richard gere is the good guy , a former ira assassin with a vendetta against the jackal . 
the jackal is trying to kill someone . 
gere is trying to stop him . 
will gere be able to stop the assassination in time and kill the jackal ? 
 ( i'll give you three guesses , and the first two don't count . ) 
there are no surprises awaiting the audience in the jackal , no moment when you say to yourself , " i wonder what happens next ? " 
the script for the jackal isn't ripped straight from today's headlines . 
it's ripped off , straight from an episode of millennium . 
throughout the movie , we learn what the jackal's plans are and how he intends to accomplish them . 
no surprise . 
the fun of a movie like this should come from richard gere figuring out what the jackal's plan is and developing a clever plan to foil the bad guy . 
instead , we get two ( count 'em , two ) scenes where gere is sitting in an fbi conference room somewhere and instantly divines the jackal's plan just as if he's frank black ( or more likely , just as if he's been handed a copy of the script ) . 
and we never get more than a superficial clue as to why gere has had this flash of insight . 
it's like gere's character is psychic , but neither he nor the fbi ( or the screenwriters ) seem to know it . 
and just like in millennium , the bad guy has an overwhelming need to go after the people the good guy cares about , whether or not they are important to what he's trying to do or not . 
what's more , in the last half of the movie , the jackal , supposedly a super-smart professional terrorist who never makes a mistake , comes down with a major case of the stupids . 
as for the performances . . . 
bruce willis manages to get through the whole movie without a wisecrack , which is a major achievement , but not enough reason to see the movie . 
his disguises are good , but not as good or as interesting as val kilmer's in the saint . 
richard gere is made to talk the entire movie in an irish accent , which detracts from his otherwise lifeless and dull performance . 
sidney poitier is probably the most disappointing element in a overwhelmingly disappointing movie -- not that his performance is bad or anything , it's not , but it is sad that hollywood won't use this talented actor in any part other than an fbi agent ( shoot to kill , sneakers ) . 
writing a good plot and a good screenplay , like i said , is hard , but it can be done . 
it wasn't done here . 
it is our job as consumers to reward good screenplays and to denounce bad and uninteresting ones . 
do not go see this movie . 
you'll only encourage the producers to make more just like it . 
instead , stay home and rent day of the jackal , or in the line of fire , or a fire safety video , for crying out loud . 
anything other than the jackal , which lives up to its name by gnawing the dead bones of other , better movies . 
all right , all right , we get the point : despite all similarities to the best-selling story , speechless is * not * based on the romance between 1992 presidential campaign rivals james carville and mary matalin . 
in fact , the script was in development well before 1992 . 
still , the comparisons are inevitable , until one realizes a critical difference . 
no , it's not that the speechless twosome are speech writers , not campaign managers ; it's that carville and matalin's story is actually interesting . 
speechless is a limp , poorly structured would-be romantic comedy . 
speechless is set during a new mexico senatorial campaign , where kevin vallick ( michael keaton ) and julia mann ( geena davis ) meet and get romantic one night when neither one can sleep . 
what neither one realizes is that they are on opposite sides of the campaign : kevin is a sit-com writer brought in to punch up the republican candidate's speeches , while julia is the chief speech writer for the democratic candidate . 
at first each one believes that the other has an ulterior motive for the relationship , but eventually they let down their guard and become closer . 
but there are plent of obstacles in the way , including julia's stud-reporter fiance ( christopher reeve ) and a series of stunts which continue to prove that all's fair in love and politics . 
the standard formula for a movie like speechless would have the two principles starting out as antagonists and realizing only at the end that they're crazy about each other . 
screenwriter robert king completely subverts expectations by throwing kevin and julia into each other's arms in the first fifteen minutes , then developing the antagonism . 
it's a noble attempt to shake things up , but unfortunately it just doesn't work . 
part of the fun of watching sparring in a romantic comedy comes from recognizing the chemistry even before the characters do , but in speechless they already know they're attracted to each other , and we're left with waiting for the campaign to end so they'll admit that they love each other already . 
there is such a herky-jerky feel to the constant bickering and making up that even king's sharp dialogue can't prevent speechless from becoming repetitive after about half an hour . 
inconsistency is also the defining characteristic of the performances of geena davis and michael keaton , and with those performances most of their scenes together . 
the problems begin with their initial courtship , which does virtually nothing to establish julia's character and merely establishes that kevin is a wise-ass . 
davis is radiantly beautiful , and keaton is generally entertaining , but these characters are so plastic that nothing that happens to them seems to matter one bit . 
in a couple of scenes , like a quiet moment sitting at a fountain , they actually achieve some measure of connection . 
for the most part , however , they're just actors spouting lines . 
you keep waiting for a little spark , and it never happens . 
perhaps most disappointing is that king and director ron underwood completely waste their premise by removing all the punch from speechless's politics . 
the setting seems perfect for a high- energy battle of the sexes with partisanship thrown into the mix , but that's never the tone that underwood is going for . 
he wants a warm , fuzzy romance compatible with marc shaiman's flute-and-wind musical score , and the campaign which should have defined the conflict between kevin and julia fades into the background . 
it might as well have been a story about rival grocers , and every single character is about as uninspired as he or she could possibly be . 
i was about the only reviewer in the civilized world who seemed to enjoy robert king's previous screenplay , the dana carvey flop clean slate , so i had some hopes for speechless . 
but while there is wit in the words , this is a script which was probably much better on paper . 
on screen , it's still paper thin . 
teenagers have a lot of power in hollywood . 
every year countless films will be made targeting that audience in particular , and rely on the entire teenage population to turn out on friday and saturday nights , wallets in hand . 
the formula is very simple , you make a film with a big name young actor or actress with sex appeal . 
you add a high school environment that features everyone from prom queens to math club nerds , and then a very simple relationship conflict that can be worked out in 90 minutes , the typical teenage attention span . 
the response is enormous as this part of the population will waste it92s money on almost any = film set in an environment they can relate to , and , most importantly , they don92t care to judge films=92 quality , so any piece of trash will = due . 
that is just what never been kissed , the latest film from director raja gosnell , is ; trash . 
josie geller ( drew barrymore ) is the youngest copy editor in the history of the chicago sun times . 
she has her own personal assistant , unlimited supplies , and her own office . 
but she is very much dismayed with her position in life . 
there is nothing she wants more than to be a reporter and go out into the field , where she can play a more active role in the chicago media . 
so when an assignment is quite literally thrown at her out of nowhere , she jumps at it with elation . 
constantly smothering josie in the work place is her friend anita ( molly shannon ) and her amicable superior , gus ( john c . reilly ) . 
the two of them are both stricken with horror upon hearing the news of her first assignment , as they both deem her to be an office worker and not a reporter . 
however , since this film is aimed at a teenage audience with little patience for character conflict , this otherwise interesting scenario is resolved within two minutes , and josie is headed for the field . 
obviously , the field assignment involves a high school . 
specifically , she is to become an undercover reporter at a high school , by enrolling in the senior class and " becoming one of them . " 
i don92t think that i = need to even begin to explain all the impossibilities of this situation ever occurring , so i won92t . 
the movie develops into josie trying to find the life that she never led in high school . 
interwoven flashback scenes show us just how much of a dork she truly was , and she appears to be heading down that road again . 
fortunately for this lame production , other characters do appear that make some of these high school scenes both humorous and remotely interesting . 
they include the predictable love stories , between both a student ( jeremy jordan ) and a teacher ( michael vartan ) , to show that josie is really two people in one body . 
also , her younger brother and opposite , rob ( david arquette ) comes into her new found life and even causes a rare scene that is mildly provocative . 
the humor found in this film is actually quite amusing . 
typical for teenage films , it is chalk full of sexual innuendoes and condom humor . 
one scene in particular features a certain classroom activity involving bananas and latex that is absolutely hysterical . 
most of the other jokes are straight forward high school humor that anyone who has ever been to high school can appreciate and will enjoy . 
but those still don92t = recover for the total lack of quality in this movie . 
following this trend of high school movie rules , comes the general acting . 
it is even worse than the trend of overplaying a scenario from film to film . 
in this case , drew barrymore is absolutely painful to watch . 
she is required to play her character on two levels , having some very black and white transitions . 
and although some scenes are written to be particular shades of gray , she seems to hold that color throughout all of her screen time . 
at one point she is alone with an obvious love interest on a ferris wheel , and is expected to him on an adult level , since he is one , her teacher . 
but she never seems to get out of the gray area , and in doing so she makes a mockery out of his otherwise good performance . 
following barrymore is the pitiful molly shannon ( saturday night live ) . 
she seems to be limited to playing an ecstatic character that no one can relate to , and draws the attention of an audience as simply unrealistic . 
it is these " qualities " that prevent the aforementioned condom scene from being one of the few decent . 
luckily there is one great performance to emerge out of this otherwise bleak film . 
david arquette ( scream ) takes home the prize for being able to stand out in an ensemble performance that is absolutely pathetic , and not have his brilliant acting ruined . 
and as a central character he gets to take on his own mini-plot , which is one of the few well done parts of never been kissed . 
in a dazzling cherry-on-the-sundae type piece of work , he does an absolutely hilarious tom cruise impression from the 1983 hit , risky business . 
never been kissed is a mediocre film at best . 
the predictable plot has become so overplayed in hollywood , that it is sickening to watch time and again , and this film is no exception . 
the acting is just as bad , but there is the one positive presence of david arquette to add some light . 
unfortunately , the bottom line is that the movie will be a success , because teenagers will pay to see any trash . 
walken stars as a mobster who is kidnapped and held for ransom by four bratty rich kids . 
it seems that a woman has also been kidnapped--she is the sister of one of them ( e . t . 's 
henry thomas ) and the girlfriend of another ( flannery ) --and the asking price is $2 million , which said snots are unable to cough up alone . 
they even cut off walken's finger to show they mean business , because they are desperate to save the woman's life . 
suicide kings is a terrible film . 
walken aside , there isn't a single appealing cast member . 
o'fallon creates characters that are functional types without any resonance . 
in an amusingly unironic scene , walken plays poker with the foursome and describes each of their personalities to a tee--it's as if he was reading the summary sheet for a casting director . 
the plot is another issue entirely . 
o'fallon is someone whom i'm betting has seen reservoir dogs and the usual suspects too many times , for not only does his story veer off on bizarre tangents from whence they never return ( do we really need the scene where dennis leary beats up an abusive father with a toaster , which is entirely unrelated to both the story and leary's character , or the numerous anecdotal sequences ? ) , but the central plot itself is a serpentine mess , filled with crosses and double crosses and triple crosses . . . 
by the fourth big revelation/twist , i had completely tuned out , wondering what on earth attracted these actors to the material . 
recently a peer , a fellow young filmmaker , informed me that he had an idea for a movie about four guys , the mob , and the fbi . 
it occurred to me then what's wrong with indies like suicide kings : i suspect o'fallon has never met a mobster , is not a rich man , doesn't deliver endless " clever " monologues to his friends about his favourite types of boots . . . 
in short , these guys are just riffing on other movies , and in doing that , making the same film over and over and over again . 
tarantino found his niche and now hundreds of genxers with movie cameras are trying to find tarantino's niche instead of carving their own . 
-reviewed at the toronto international film festival 
>from writer and director darren stein comes jawbreaker , the poorly told tale of what can happen when an innocent birthday prank goes wrong . 
at reagan high , four girls are sitting on top of the world . 
courtney shane , played by rose mcgowan , holds the title of meanest , most disrespectful soul in the school . 
everyone hates her , but everyone envies her due to her popularity . 
courtney is the " leader " of her clique , which also includes julie , played by rebecca gayheart , liz purr , played by charlotte roldan , and marcie , played by julie benz are the other three in the group . 
it is liz's seventeenth birthday , and julie , courtney , and marcie concur that they will play a seemingly innocent prank on her , but the prank results in the death of liz . 
just like stupid teens in any teen directed film such as this one , the foursome decide to cover up the death to make it look like a murder committed by someone else . 
and also just like in other teen directed movies , one of the four don't agree with hiding it , this time that character being julie . 
and finally , just like in other teen movies , there is a witness outside the group trying to hide the truth . 
this time that character being fern mayo ( judy greer ) , who is subject to many cracks from courtney's group , as well as the entire school . 
>from here , jawbreaker turns into a predictable tale of revenge , bad morals , and at least trying to do the right thing . 
not only is the script weak , on a whole the acting is horrid thanks to a large amount of the main cast . 
judy greer is undeniably awful as her one dimensional , annoying character , as she overacts every line she has . 
also on the bad side of acting is julie benz , almost falling to the annoying factor that greer delivers . 
on the positive side of acting , rose mcgowan performs well here , but doesn't match her wickedly clever performance as " tatum " , in 1996's scream . 
mcgowan's role is annoying , but this only adds to the film . 
she is wickedly mean , and even though she a well-written character , you downright hate her . 
faring even better than mcgowan is rebecca gayheart , who is always exceptionally believable as her roles . 
when the script feeds her a one or two dimensional character , she turns it into three , always putting strong emotion and power into her roles . 
gayheart isn't given as much to do here as she was in 1998's urban legend , but you can still get a strong taste of her acting skills in jawbreaker . 
jawbreaker drifts and mianders different sub plots throughout , hardly throwing anything for the viewer to get absorbed in . 
we get way off of the topic of the jawbreaker incident , and get into things that don't have anything to do with the actual film . 
the beginning and ending are strong , it's just the middle that needs a lot of help . 
during the body of the movie , it is undeniably repetitive , never progressing towards a conclusion . 
nothing to grab the viewer's interest is around , and the same , extremely annoying song plays over and over again . 
jawbreaker tries to get off on the same time of humor used in the 1995 film clueless , but falls flat . 
the few gags that actually work die off quickly and die off with a bang . 
all in all , a horrible disappointment . 
the bottom line : the tagline reads , " even the sweetest candies are sour as death inside . " 
yes , that is too true . 
no matter how good this film may have looked , it fails to deliver . 
well there goes another one . 
sadly this like other movies this year wasn't good . 
this one being almost as bad as 'the omega code' but not quite . 
from the opening credits i had a good feeling this would be bad , and well i guess i was right . 
with bad excuses for acting , a horrible screenplay and straight-out bad direction 'the bachelor' is a terribly unfunny movie that doesn't work on any levels accept that fact that rene zellwegar who does give a good performance . 
the two cameos by brooke shields and mariah carey are also good with brooke being the best . 
the movie is troubled from the start because chris o'donnell is hugely miscast and gives one of the worst performances to date . 
here is the stupid plot : chris o'donnell plays jimmie shelton a man who has just broken up with his girlfriend , he meets anne ( rene zellwegar ) they instantly hit it off and are together for three years . 
jimmie decides that he wants to bring their relationship a little bit up . 
he really doesn't realize that anne thinks he wants to marry her ( what he wants i never did catch ) . 
so he proposes in a really bad way , and she shoots him down and is very mad . 
he of course tries to apologize but nothing seems to help any . 
then his grandfather dies and he learns that he has left jimmie 100 million dollars . . . . as 
long as he marries before the next day at 6 : 05 pm . 
now jimmie must find anne and try to marry her to get the money and because he loves her , or get married to someone else to get the money itself , leading to an un-funny and predictable ending that leaves a bad taste in our mouths . 
ok so maybe this could be one of the dumbest , cliched , silliest romantic comedy to date that has no real big laughs . 
even the supporting roles of artie lange , hal holbrook and ed anser aren't even good . 
the plot was a good idea , but the script would have to have been written in less than five minutes and by a five year old . 
the choppy dialogue and bad directing don't help things any . 
even though chris o'donnell gave an ok performance in the two batman movies , he does not give even a remotely good or funny performance here and i wanted to boo and throw my pop at the screen to get rid of him . 
rene zelweggar is a different story and gave a charming , sweet and likable performance ( as usual ) and really was the only thing that saved this confused movie from being a total huge washout . 
her sister played by marley shelton is also good and the two have good chemistry onscreen . 
brooke shields showed up in a funny little performance as a big-headed mogul who after a while became routine and old . 
one really can't help but think that we have seen this stuff before . 
it's not like this is an original idea and in the end , everyone knows what is going to happen due do its cliches and typicalness . 
'the bachelor' works on no good levels and in fact doesn't work at all . 
ed anser and hal holbrook were wasted in terrible roles and mariah carey can not act to save her soul , and this could be the only film of her movie career dispite her terrific music career . 
chris o'donnell is not as bad an actor as casper van dien but that is not saying a great deal . 
he seems held back and really doesn't get into his character much and after even the first 30 minutes gets annoying and old . 
artie lange just to me seems like he is trying to another chris farley and was completely unfunny and un-nerving . 
why the filmmakers would want to waste such a cast in such a bad movie , with such bad acting and dialogue is a question only they will know . 
maybe they thought it would become a hit or a critical success , and sometimes i don't agree with other critics on movies , even from the trailers for this film they made it look bad and showed all the mildly funny parts . 
its based on the 1925 silent film 'seven chances' which i am sure is very better than this mess . 
even though some may think of this as a good date movie , most who see this will want to pull out thier hair and scream for thier money back . 
besides being a terrible movie , 'the bachelor' is well a terrible movie . 
it has nothing worth recommending therefore i really can't recommend this movie . 
i did not have a good time and i laughed only three times . 
the running time of the movie is 106 minutes which is wayyyy over time and needs to be shortened at least thirty minutes . 
parts of it seems to go on forever and parts of seem to not last enough time . 
being one of the worst movies of the year , we can be sure that i hope they will not make anymore stupid unfunny romantic comedies , and if they do they i give up on filmmakers . 
my inner flag was at half-mast last year when nick at nite pulled " dragnet " reruns off the air . 
sure , i'd seen them all at least once , but i could always count on at least a few inadvertent laughs from ultra-serious jack webb when there was nothing else on tv . 
even though " dragnet " is out of circulation at the moment , we webb anti-fans still have the d . i . , a 50's propaganda piece for the military that is almost as hilarious as the famous " blue boy " episode of " dragnet . " 
for anyone like me who got laughs out of webb's rapid-fire speeches and straight-faced seriousness , think of the d . i . 
as what would happen if sgt . 
joe friday ever enlisted , because he plays exactly the same character here , a no-nonsense old fart who looks with disdain at the younger generation and loves to give long- winded , melodramatic speeches on any topic . 
in this election year , i'm more convinced than ever that webb and bob dole were separated at birth . 
the movie opens in characteristic fashion as one recruit after another knocks on webb's office door and enters . 
he gives each one a different series of cranky criticisms before the credits come up . 
the " produced and directed by jack webb " card pretty much goes without saying . 
this is his movie all the way , and after the first twenty minutes of him chewing out his recruits for no reason , i was wondering if there would even be a plot . 
i certainly would have been entertained by an hour and a half of trademark webb rants , but the d . i . 
gives us more -- much more . 
webb's mission is to make a man out of private owens , the local screw-up . 
the captain gives webb three days to convert owens into marine material or , the captain will " personally cut the lace off his panties and ship him out myself . " 
 ( whether the " lace panties " part refers to webb or owens remains unanswered . ) 
this , of course , gives webb an excuse to focus all his crotchety energy on making owens' life a living hell . 
for those of you who haven't been indoctrinated into the pleasures of webb watching , here's a reprint of a typical monologue of his . 
i can't duplicate his hilarious delivery on paper , but the words should at least partially convey what i'm talking about . . . 
 " now you listen to me , youngster . 
someday you'll wake up fighting on a beach and you'll pray to god somebody doesn't get killed because of your foolishness . . . 
i've got a headline for you : every time you make one of those little mistakes of yours , you're gonna turn around and i'll be standing right there . " 
i couldn't write down all the reprintable dialogue from the d . i . 
 ( nearly all of it belongs in the bad movie hall of fame ) , but i tried to include some of the more noteworthy lines , like one from the scene where webb unwinds from a hard day's work by going to the local bar ( where he orders a tomato juice ) . 
he meets a woman who , coincidentally , also orders tomato juice but walks away from a typically-stimulating conversation with webb to flirt with his arch-rival , another marine d . i . 
webb marches over to the table , gets up in her face and says , " just what kind of a dame do you think you are ? " 
bogart he ain't . 
the other d . i . 
gets one of the few memorable non-webb lines when he confesses to the girl , " he's a damn good d . i . 
 . . . 
i guess i'm just a little jealous . " 
join the club , we're all jealous of jack webb's way with women , which is showcased even more amusingly in a later scene , as webb finds his way to the woman's place of employment , a lingerie store , and stands around looking incredibly flustered at the negligees on display . 
 " you expect me to talk to you . . . 
in _here_ ? ! " he exclaims , no doubt intimidated by the barrage of bras . 
the woman goes off to help a customer , leaving webb to fend for himself once again in this palace of estrogen . 
a little girl spots him in the store and demands , " what are you doing in here . . . you're a man , aren't you ? " 
he doesn't reply , but you know he's thinking in his head , " what an odd species of human -- so small . 
must be one of those children everyone's been talking about . " 
this poor girl , scarred for life by her early encounter with jack webb , would later swear off the male gender entirely , just one of the many lesbian conversions he's responsible for . 
the movie doesn't focus too closely on webb's romance , it also continues the owens subplot with probably the most memorable scene in the entire movie , where webb forces his platoon to spend the entire night searching the ground for a flea owens killed during one of their drills . 
after two privates hatch a scheme to present webb with the wrong dead flea , webb asks owens , " was that flea you killed a male or female ? " 
owens replies , " a male , sir . " 
webb yells to the platoon , " this ain't the one ! " 
that such a scene ( along with the rest of the movie ) was intended to be taken seriously defies comment . 
but we know it was all presented with the utmost seriousness when a title card at the end thanks the marines not only for their cooperation in the making of the d . i . , but for iwo jima , guadalcanal and every other major battle of the first half of the 20th century . 
webb held the military in such high esteem that all the soldiers in the movie ( with the exception of owens ) were played by actual marines . 
someone wanting to parody this movie couldn't do a more comical job than webb did . 
it makes it all the more ironic ( like raeeyain on your wedding day ) that the man had no sense of humor himself . 
there's a scene in the movie where the guys are on their break time discussing something and one of them breaks into laughter . 
webb bursts in the room and shouts , " what did i tell you about laughing ? ! " 
to which the private replies , " sir , only nine-year-old girls laugh , sir ! " 
and let me tell you , i was as happy as a nine-year- old girl while watching this movie . 
frank detorri's ( bill murray ) a single dad who lives on beer and junk food with no apparent understanding of sanitation or hygiene , much to the dismay of his preteen daughter shane ( elena franklin ) . 
when he uses the '10 second rule' to retrieve a hard boiled egg from a chimp's cage at the zoo and downs it , he introduces a lethal bacteria into his system . 
inside his skin , the city of frank is in turmoil thanks to the vote-pandering of mayor phlegmming ( voice of william shatner ) , so it's up to one frank pd white blood cell ( voice of chris rock ) to save the day in peter and bobby farrelly's " osmosis jones . " 
the city of frank is a brightly animated ( animation directed by piet kroon and tom sito ) cellular municipality where osmosis jones is a typical rogue cop looking for another chance . 
he's inadvertently teamed up with drix ( voice of david hyde pierce , tv's " frasier " ) , a cold capsule with 12 hours worth of painkillers to dispense . 
this quarrelling duo are about to go on a " fantastic voyage " in order to hunt down thrax ( voice of laurence fishburne ) , the virus intent on shutting down frank . 
while the animation is certainly colorful to look at , osmosis jones' story is a hackneyed one . 
the story cries out for puny puns , but we only get occasional sprinklings of wit or bodily humor ( drix graduated phi beta capsule , he departs on a bus headed for bladder ) . 
neither the hero or villain is particularly interesting ( thrax looks like an animated " predator " ) , although hyde pierce is a delightful sidekick . 
adults can desperately keep their eyes peeled for small amusements the animators dot along the landscape . 
meanwhile , back in live action land , bill murray is reduced to nothing more than a walking gross-out joke . 
there's no particular enjoyment to be found watching him vomit on molly shannon ( she plays shane's teacher , mrs . boyd ) or hoisting his ingrown toenail onto a restaurant table . 
one must wonder how the climatic flatlining of a child's father will play to the family audience as well . 
rest assured , the whole enchilada is wrapped up with a fart joke . 
while far less offensive than the farrelly's last effort " me , myself and irene , " that film at least spiked some comic highs with jim carrey's hijinx . 
 " osmosis jones " will probably be ok for the kids , but the farrellys playing for the family audience is like watching marilyn manson croon a phil collins tune . 
woof ! too bad that leap of faith was the title of a 1992 comedy starring steve martin and debra winger , because that's what's required to watch this incredulous howler starring bruce willis as--of all things--a psychologist . 
not since the reagan administration has there been an acting stretch of such magnitude ! 
alas , mickey rourke , we hardly knew ye . 
story opens with a campy kick--willis is treating a patient who abruptly steps out of the window to take the best flying leap since charles durning dove in the hudsucker proxy . 
she goes splat , he goes ugh , and his character spends the rest of the film colorblind . 
really . 
the good doctor then moves to sunny l . a . , where he rooms with an old college chum ( scott bakula ) , a therapist who's getting death threats from someone in his monday evening group . 
buddy bites it in the second reel ( no surprise there ) and willis agrees to take over both the group and the death threats . 
for his troubles as therapy man , willis gets to share some cut-from-nc17 love scenes with the lover's jane march while dodging nails , cars , and rattlesnakes . 
why'd it have to be snakes ? 
color of night is the worst movie of the year . 
period . 
forget north , clifford , or , heaven help us , even on deadly ground . 
here is a movie misfire so audaciously awful that you can't help but wonder how the actors all kept straight faces while filming . 
for starters , the " group " is a collection of mixed nuts better suited to bob newhart than bruce willis . 
these are realistic portrayals of the mentally unhealthy ? 
playing a prissy obsessive/compulsive , cuckoos nest alumni brad dourif , alone , may set the psychology profession back ten years . 
the plot's a wreck with laughable dialogue , pointless pov shifts , and the one big secret solvable in the first fifteen minutes . 
director richard rush , who once helmed freebie and the bean , doesn't seem to mind . 
unfazed by the nincompoop plot and cuckoo characterizations , he overfills the film with enough canny camera shots and zany set-pieces to make the effort almost worth watching . 
his token freeway chase is ok , but the director has more fun with a vertiginous ending ala ( most recently ) fatal analysis . 
acting credits are across-the-board awful . 
willis can be forgiven because he's filming die hard 3 as we speak . 
but what about ruben blades insulting presence as the cop ? 
or lesley ann warren's stereotypical sex addict ? 
or worst offender jane march as a mystery-girl-who's-no-real-mystery ? 
shudder . 
bottom line : how they all kept straight faces , i'll never know . 
there's only one presidential election every four years , but it seems like every few months we get another presidential conspiracy movie painted as _the_ thriller of the year . 
in 1997 , we've had absolute power , air force one , shadow conspiracy and murder at 1600 . 
this one is about as lame duck as old gerald ford , trying to bring us a complex plot of cover-up and intrigue but copping out over and over again with rehashes of action flick standbys . 
here's what happens this time . 
it's night at the white house . 
a secretary is having sex with some unidentified guy with a cute butt . 
the next day she's dead and hotshot detective wesley snipes is called in . 
how do we know he's a hotshot ? 
we've seen the traditional action flick opener -- the clever hostage negotiation scene . 
it's not so clever this time , consisting of snipes disarming a suicidal ex-government employee holding a gun to his head in the middle of the street . 
snipes is off to the white house , where he finds the secret service head ( the shiny bald head of daniel benzali ) won't cooperate with him at all . 
in fact , if not for the intervention of national security adviser alan alda , snipes wouldn't have been allowed in the white house at all . 
alda helps snipes out further , assigning a sexy secret service agent ( diane lane ) to act as his liaison . . . 
a very dangerous liaison . 
well , not really , i just wanted to say that . 
almost immediately , a suspect is found , an eccentric night janitor seen flirting with the deceased on one of the security videos . 
snipes doesn't buy it , and launches into an independent investigation of his own , one that reveals planted evidence and romantic involvement by the president's son . 
snipes' partner , an always- wisecracking dennis miller , calls him up every once in awhile with more news and lane , who at first doesn't believe snipes , eventually and predictably comes around , and risks her ass to break into social security storage and break out some classified information . 
for the first hour or so , murder at 1600 looks like it could be going somewhere interesting . 
sure , we have to sit through the lame opening sequence and plenty more lame scenes after that , but the whole murder in the white house thing makes for an interesting premise that is never quite delivered upon . 
snipes and lane don't make for a bad action team , but with nothing to work with , they're just cogs in the bad movie machine . 
dennis miller might as well not even be in the movie ; they waste his talents more in murder at 1600 than they did in bordello of blood , and that's saying a lot . 
when you get to the last half-hour , the movie has descended metaphorically and literally into a wet sewer , busting out the old break-into-the-building underground climax . 
and when they finally reveal who killed the woman and why , you'll wish you never sat through this movie at all . 
the " 1600 " in the movie's title doesn't represent an address , it represents the number of satisfied customers worldwide . 
serving the world for nearly 1/25th of a century ! 
ah , and 1999 was going along so well , too . 
 " she's all that " has the dubious distinction of being the worst movie i've seen so far this year . 
and quite frankly , i doubt i'll see anything equally bad . 
 ( at least , i * hope * i don't see anything equally bad ) . 
 " she's all that " tells the story of the most popular guy in school ( played by freddie prinze jr . ) who accepts a bet to transform the geekiest girl in school ( rachel leigh cook ) into the most popular . 
that , right there , is problem #1 . 
how many times have we seen this storyline ? 
as cook comments near the end of the film , " it's kind of like " pretty woman " , except without the prostitution " . 
of course , had the filmmakers attempted to try something new with this material , the well-worn storyline would have been a device to propell the movie forward . 
as it is , though , " she's all that " relies * completely * on the lame and overused formula to push it ahead . 
there's not one original or interesting character in the film , either , and if that wasn't bad enough , there's not one good performance featured . 
the star of the movie , rachel leigh cook , is simply horrible . 
i usually don't like to get so personal , but in this case , i think it needs to be said . 
cook wears the same expression throughout the flick and looks to be having as miserable a time as i was . 
i was never convinced that she was a " nerd " , and her transformation was unconvincing and unnecessary . 
the movie seems to be saying it's better to be popular than to be who you are . 
as for freddie prinze jr . , an actor i ordinarily enjoy , he too is quite bad here . 
he coasts through the film on so-called charm , and never establishes a real character . 
kieren culkin is here , too , as the brother of cook . 
and for some indiscernable reason , he's got hearing aids . 
no explanation is given and they're never brought up . 
were we supposed to feel * sorry * for him just because he wore hearing aids ? 
i don't think so . 
that single element of the film was one of the most offensive things i've seen in a movie in a long time . 
 " she's all that " sucks . 
that's what it boils down to . 
it's not entertaining , and it's not even a good time passer . 
the hour and a half running time goes by slower than a 5 minute hair-removal system informercial . 
and what's worse , it sends out a bad message to teens . 
it appears to be telling them , " hey , it doesn't matter if you're happy the way you are . 
that's unimportant . 
if you want to * truly * be happy , dress in the latest fashions and act like a bubble-headed moron . " 
ugh . 
michael robbins' hardball is quite the cinematic achievement . 
in about two hours , we get a glancing examination of ghetto life , a funeral with a heartfelt eulogy , speeches about never giving up , a cache of cute kids ( including a fat one with asthma ) , a hard-luck gambler who finds salvation in a good woman and a climactic " big game , " where the underdogs prove to have a bigger bite than anyone ever imagined . 
all that's needed is a guy getting hit in the nuts and a food fight to have the first film solely based on cinematic clich ? s . 
i can't wait to see the deleted scenes when it comes out on dvd . 
obviously , hardball is a strikeout of a movie that never gets the bat anywhere near the ball . 
it stars keanu reeves as the aforementioned gambler , who seems to owe every bookie in chicago an amount of money that rivals the gross national product of guam . 
out of solutions , he begs his successful corporate friend ( the always welcome mike mcglone ) to lend him $5 , 000 . 
instead , mcglone offers reeves the chance to help him coach a youth baseball team from the projects for a nice weekly stipend . 
reeves , who wants to keep his fingers , accepts the offer , but discovers mcglone is only too happy to let him handle the team entirely . 
the drowsy-voiced protagonist must teach the sassy inner city kids the baseball basics in a life of absentee parents and merciless gangs . 
and maybe , just maybe , they'll play in the big championship game . 
one of the glorious surprises in the screenplay by john gatins ( summer catch ) , adapted from daniel coyle's non-fiction book , is that there aren't any . 
the movie coasts from heartfelt moment to heartfelt moment like a zombie . 
that wouldn't be so bad , if the characters had an ounce of subtlety or humanity to them . 
most of the kids' time is spent yelling at each other , talking in slang and acting surprised . 
there's little that's naturally amusing about them , as they all seem to know the cameras are rolling . 
the worst of the lot is a tough-talking younger player ( dewayne warren ) whose sole purpose , as the movie unfolds , is being an emotional pawn , a tactic so utterly despicable i can't find the right words to express myself . 
the adults also don't fare well . 
reeves is impressively uninspiring as the down-on-his-luck loser . 
the character is poorly written , but reeves gives another charisma-free performance . 
every time he speaks , he sounds like he just got up from a long nap and is gradually waking up . 
kids are supposed to rally around this guy ? 
diane lane , who co-stars as reeves' obligatory love interest , remains a glowing screen presence ( see my dog skip for better proof ) . 
it's too bad that her role here consists of uttering lines like , " these kids trust you , and they don't trust anyone ! " 
then there's d . b . 
sweeney as an evil rival coach and john hawkes as reeves' scummy betting buddy and other unoriginal characters you've seen before and hope never to see again . 
i wanted hardball to be good . 
robbins' varsity blues was a funny and alternately taut tale of texas high school football that had ali larter smothered in whipped cream and jon voight sneering at everything that moved . 
i haven't seen robbins' goofy ready to rumble in its entirety , but i am intrigued that " macho man " randy savage and martin landau can exist in the same movie without there being serious worldwide repercussions . 
robbins obviously needs to go back to his forte -- making sports movies for guys and not cutesy , cuddly pap such as hardball , which also manages to annoy and insult the audience . 
here's hoping that happens in the immediate future . 
you know something , christmas is not about presents . 
it's about over-hyped holiday films with lots of merchandising and product tie-ins . 
at least that would seem to be the message of " the grinch , " which has been advertised since last christmas and whose logo is currently plastered all over stores . 
hollywood expects us to ignore this cynical greed as the movie scolds us about losing the true spirit of the season . 
you know the plot : there's this evil furry green guy called the grinch ( jim carrey ) who lives on a mountain overlooking whoville . 
down below all the whos are preparing for their whobilation , but the grinch is determined to steal their christmas . 
the movie is , of course , a live-action version of the beloved children's book , which was previously adapted into a 1966 tv special by looney tunes animator chuck jones . 
it's rare that a big budget hollywood release is shamed by a thirty-year-old half-hour cartoon , but that's the case when jones' version is compared to ron howard's . 
the tv grinch hit all the right notes : boris karloff's soft , deep narration ; thurl ravenscroft singing " mr . grinch " ; max the dog weighed down by the gigantic antler tied to his head ; and the grinch's wide , toothless grin . 
by contrast , the movie hits one sour note after another . 
first , there are the numerous bad choices that jeffrey price and peter seaman made in padding out the short book into a 105-minute movie . 
young wide-eyed cindy lou who ( taylor momsen ) is depressed about the misplaced priorities of her parents ( bill irwin and molly shannon ) during the holiday season . 
she begins to sympathize with the grinch , who turns out to be surprisingly sympathetic . 
cindy lou discovers that the grinch turned tearfully away from whoville in grammar school when he was publicly humiliated while expressing his love for the prettiest girl in the class , martha may whovier ( played as an adult by christine baranski ) . 
are we expected to like the grinch , hate the whos , and want him to steal christmas ? 
the grinch isn't even the villain here ; that role is filled by the corrupt mayor of whoville ( jeffrey tambor ) who was the grinch's rival for martha's affection . 
not only are the characters needlessly complex , but the once-simple plot becomes so convoluted that the actual theft of christmas seems like an afterthought . 
the casting choices aren't any better than the screenwriting decisions . 
jim carrey seems woefully miscast . 
while his face is so supple that the rubber make-up seems superfluous , carrey brings nothing else to the role . 
his accent keeps changing ; i assume he was shooting for karloff , but he ends up sounding like a weird slurry of richard nixon , sean connery , and cartman from " south park . " 
not knowing what else to do during his many scenes alone in the grinch's home , carrey falls back on his stand-up comedy and clowns around ace ventura-style . 
needless to say , his wise-cracking antics don't quite fit the character of the grinch , who is an embittered loner filled with hate . 
little taylor momsen brings little to role of cindy lou except big eyes and a cute smile . 
she would have been fine if cindy lou was limited to her original purpose in the seuss story ( finding " santa " in her living room stealing the tree ) . 
however , the expanded script makes cindy as important as the grinch , and momsen is not up to the challenge . 
bottom line : when you're stealing christmas ( movies ) , leave this one behind . 
in the mid-1980s , following the splendid debut in hugh hudson's greystoke and relative success of first highlander film , it looked like christopher lambert's acting career might go somewhere . 
but , it wasn't meant to be , which became obvious following highlander ii . 
in this decade christopher lambert became associated with films with low budgets and even lower quality . 
very often such films were science fiction , which meant that the fans of that genre learned the hard way what to evade anything starring christopher lambert . 
whether it was because of real lack of talent , terrible miscasting or simple bad luck isn't important - the end result was almost always horrible . 
the same can be said for fortress , 1993 science fiction film directed by stuart gordon , director who created cult following with his 1980s horror gorefests like reanimator and from beyond . 
the movie is set in 2018 . 
for some undisclosed reason , usa introduced strict population control and couples are barred from having more than one child . 
jake ( christopher lambert ) and karen brennick ( lori laughlin ) broke that law and are caught by authorities on the border . 
sentenced to 31 years in prison , they are both thrown into fortress , privately owned correctional facility , equiped with state-of-the-art futuristic technology and run by computer called zed . 
although equiped with gismos that regulate every aspect of inmates' lives and make any escape impossible , prison authorities often use violence . 
jake survives many ordeals and earns respect of some inmates which would help him when he begins planing the escape . 
such escape should become necessity , because the warden poe ( kurtwood smith ) begins showing unhealthy interest in karen . 
after rather intriguing beginning and some interesting special effects that depict the futuristic settings of prison , this film soon starts sinking into mediocrity . 
the reason is in the screenplay that quickly degenerates into whole series of prison movie clich ? s and situations that are painfully predictable . 
by the time brennick begins his escape from fortress , those situations not only begin to look predictable , but utterly implausible too . 
of course , film never tried to explain why the country that lacks resources to support its present population happens to spend bucketloads of money on ultra-expensive supertechnology with sole intention of keeping alive most useless and dangerous members of the society . 
the initially interesting plot is done even more wrong by stereotyped characters , played by not too interested or talented actors . 
lori laughlin , although physically attractive , shows the acting ability of sequoia . 
kurtwood smith as prison warden is rather uninspired , capable of solid , yet forgettable performance . 
lambert's performance is also good , but even the bigger talent couldn't help this film , destined to end in oblivion . 
susan granger's review of " the musketeer " ( universal pictures ) 
hollywood launches another assault on classic literature with this $50 million adaptation of alexandre dumas's novel that's strong on action but weak on drama , fusing hong kong martial arts with 17th century swordplay . 
the story chronicles the adventures of the dashing d'artagnan ( justin chambers ) as he leaves his village of gascogne , headed for paris , to join king louis xiii's elite guard , the royal musketeers , and to search for the man who killed his parents 14 years earlier . 
this puts him in conflict with the formidable febre ( tim roth ) , vicious henchman for conniving cardinal richelieu ( stephen rea ) . 
the traditional musketeer trio - aramis ( nick moran ) , athos ( jan gregor kremp ) and porthos ( steve speirs ) - don't offer much help so he turns to the feisty francesca ( mena suvari ) , chambermaid to the queen of france ( catherine deneuve ) . 
scripter gene quintano and director-cinematographer peter hyams are primarily interested in the derring-do , as evidenced by choreographer xin-xin xiong's elaborate - but not original - stunts , including a fast-paced stagecoach chase , a tavern brawl on rolling barrels , high-wire acrobatics with the combatants dangling from ropes , and a ladder-fight sequence . 
filmed in southern france , the scenery , sets and costumes are spectacular , but the lighting is too dark and editing is filled with choppy , restless mtv'ish cuts . 
as the swashbuckling d'artagnan , bland calvin klein model justin chambers buckles where he should be swashing , totally lacking on-screen charisma , not to mention acting skill . 
mena suvari , so impressive in " american beauty , " seems like a contemporary interloper in the royal court . 
on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " the musketeer " is a cinematic but shallow 3 . 
 " all for one and one for all " ? 
not this time 'round . 
note : some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers . 
be forewarned . 
at the end of the day , those reflecting upon the debacle that is the avengers would do well to take note that warning clouds loomed on the horizon for the project well before warner bros . made the contentious decision to abandon preview press screenings and scrapped plans for a gala premiere . 
this highly-anticipated film rendition of the cult television show was originally slotted for an early june opening , where it would have gone head-to-head against the rival studios' heavy hitters ; its eventual demotion to a less potent mid-august opening was an obvious early indication of the studio's lack of confidence with the picture . 
and with good reason . 
this is a joyless exercise of a film , held together by a barely coherent plot and lacking any semblance of excitement , thrills or wit . 
remarkable in its banality and brutally uninvolving , the avengers is a catastrophic mess which immediately invites comparisons to last year's case study in style over substance , joel schumacher's much-loathed batman & robin . 
 ( indeed , both films even feature appalling , ridiculous sequences which find central characters dressed up in fuzzy oversized costumes . ) 
uma thurman , who takes on the salacious role of the catsuit-clad , karate-chopping emma peel immortalized by diana rigg , was the only bright spot in the aforementioned schumacher disaster , imbuing her poison ivy with a dose of sassiness and sly wit that gave audiences something to smile at amidst the cinematic carnage . 
unfortunately , the same can't be said here , where she and cohort ralph fiennes ( our new john steed , taking over for patrick macnee ) demonstrate no appreciable chemistry whatsoever , fatally crippling the picture as they volley fizzling repartee back and forth and trade double-entendres with all the enthusiasm of two actors painfully aware that they're on board a sinking ship . 
at this rate , usually-splendid actor mr . fiennes may never make the transition from arthouse apollo to mainstream leading man -- his tepid turn here will make as much of an inroad as his commendably seedy performance in the regrettably-neglected kathyrn bigelow film strange days . 
the duo * look * the part -- and admittedly the avengers is , more than most , heavily dependent upon style -- but they're no fun to watch , and i found myself growing increasingly distant and annoyed by the lack of spark between the two cheekily ironic characters as they navigated through the picture's caper-esque plot . 
when not checking my wristwatch or shifting restlessly in my seat , i began to alleviate the boredom by considering how this all might have played out had the filmmakers chose to go instead with that erstwhile emma as our mrs . peel -- no , not kate beckinsale ( although the notion now intrigues me ) , but gwyneth paltrow , who was originally in the running for the part and can veritably handle a spot-on english accent . 
if nothing else , it'd at least be highly entertaining for the incongruous sight of the vaguely twiggish young actress kicking butt . 
the story , such as it is , involves the ever-bemused tandem of steed and peel combating the malevolent sir august de wynter ( sean connery ) , an eccentric aristocrat threatening the safety of the nation with his climate-controlling contraption . 
 ( they also sip a lot of tea . ) 
overlooking some goofy cloning nonsense and quirky hijinx involving our protagonists' superiors , it sounds far better than it plays , and is rendered almost indecipherable by blatant post-production tinkering ; it's clearly evident that the picture has been cut to shreds . 
the avengers was never about gripping drama , and our heroes accordingly never take villainous sir august very seriously , but given the lack of cohesion in the plot and the lack of menace conveyed by the buffoonish maniac , it's all decidedly uncompelling . 
mr . connery , who's onscreen barely long enough to register an impression , approaches the role like a man fulfilling a contractual obligation , simultaneously chewing the scenery while unable to hide his disinterest . 
at least it all looks good . 
this is a genuinely handsome production , with fine costume design by anthony powell and crisply shot by roger pratt . 
in particular , the gleaming production design by stuart craig commands attention , adeptly drawing elements both old and new in order to depict this great britain . 
there are a handful of striking visual moments in the film , including an attack by a swarm of giant robotic bees and a nice shot of steed and peel finding a way to walk on water , but the film is so unremittingly dull that even these instances fail to stir interest or raise pulse rates . 
by the time the film's climax had arrived , my interest was not with the sight of steed and sir august slugging it out amidst crashing waves and thundering rain , but with the quickest escape route from the theatre . 
not coincidentally , the enticing bits of visual bravura were the shots assembled into the movie's remarkable trailer , a savvy piece of work which ironically is infinitely more appealing that the feature film itself ; the first promo which made the rounds in early spring is probably my favourite studio trailer so far this year . 
it's everything that the avengers is not -- saucy , clever , engaging , and entertaining . 
a crushing disappointment , the film is one of the worst outings of the year -- too drearily awful to be savoured as gleefully bad , too polished to overlook its deficiencies . 
there may be upcoming pictures that are even more lifeless than the avengers , but i sure hope not . 
stallone attempts to 'act' in this cop drama . 
the film is set in a neighbourhood pratically built by kietal , who's nephew ( played by michael rappaport ) is involved in a car crash and killing of two black youths . 
keital dosen't really want to get involved in anything , gets rid of rappaport , and stallone and de niro try to work out what the hell is going on . 
this film should be brilliant . 
it sounds like a great plot , the actors are first grade , and the supporting cast is good aswell , and stallone is attempting to deliver a good performance . 
however , it can't hold up . 
although the acting is fantastic ( even stallone isn't bad ) the directing and story is dull and long winded 
some scenes go on for too long , with nothing really happening in them . 
in fact , the only scenes that do work are action scenes , which i suspect stallone was trying to avoid . 
in this film , serious means dull . 
the dialogue is warbling , and basically just repeats the same points over and over , no matter who is delivering them . 
the plot , which has potential , is wasted , again just being cliched after a while . 
in fact , the only thing that does keep the film going is kietal and de niro , both delivering their usual good performances . 
however , stallone , although not given much to say , gives a good performance . 
however , it's not all that bad . 
as said above , the action scenes are well done . 
theres also a very good ending , which uses the cinemas sound system well . 
in fact , the last 10 minutes of this 2 hour film are one of the best endings of 1997 . 
if only the rest of the film was as good as the ending . 
cop land , then , turns out not to be a power house film , but a rather dull , and not every exciting film . 
hugely disappointing , and i can't really recommend it . 
the first species was a moderately-successful science fiction yarn that diverted audiences with some nifty special effects , a few well- paced action sequences , and frequent views of model-turned-actress natasha henstridge sans clothing . 
however , it was definitely not a movie that cried out for a sequel . 
and , considering the quality of species 2 , it's obvious that mgm should have stopped while they were ahead . 
the only thing that distinguishes species 2 is how awful it is . 
if you throw away the plot , which is characterized by a blatant disregard for intelligence , logic , coherence , and consistency , species 2 actually has a few things to recommend it to a select audience . 
of course , that audience is primarily comprised of teenage boys ( who , at least in theory , shouldn't be able to get into an " r " -rated film ) and connoisseurs of bad movies . 
there's enough blood , gore , simulated sex , and bare flesh in species 2 to prevent it from ever becoming boring . 
this is a grade z exploitation flick that's ripe for the mystery science theater 3000 treatment . 
somewhere , someplace , i recall hearing species 2 described as " erotic . " 
i would love to know who used with that adjective for this movie , because he ( or she ) has a peculiar notion of eroticism . 
sure , there's a lot of sex and nudity , but it's almost always accompanied by the ripping open of a woman's abdomen as an alien baby claws its way free , splattering blood and gore in all directions . 
anyone turned on by that is not someone i would care to be sitting next to in a theater . 
i suppose the main attraction in species 2 is natasha henstridge ( and , to get the obvious question out of the way -- yes , she does remove her top , but only once , and only briefly ) . 
although the character she played in the original species is dead , government scientists still have the dna , and , out of what can only be described as a suicidal impulse , they decide to create another clone . 
this creature , dubbed " eve " by its creator , dr . laura baker ( played by marg helgenberger , reprising her role ) , is genetically engineered to be kinder and more docile . 
meanwhile , man has finally set foot on mars . 
a team of three , led by patrick ross ( justin lazard ) , has traveled to the red planet , but when they return to earth , they bring something with them . 
ross has become a half-human/half-alien hybrid , and he's soon mating like crazy , collecting the blood-soaked children that are the result of each sex session . 
his intention is obviously world domination . 
standing in his way is that indomitable soldier of fortune from the first film , preston lennox ( michael madsen ) , and one of patrick's fellow astronauts , dennis gamble ( mykelti williamson ) . 
but when patrick learns about eve , a female of his kind , there's no damping his ardor . 
i'm not sure what the budget for species 2 was , but a significant portion of it must have gone into paying handsome salaries to several recognizable actors ( as opposed to being diverted into the special effects ) . 
michael madsen and marg helgenberger , both back for a second round , are clearly on hand to do as little as they can , grab the money , and run . 
ditto for james cromwell , who plays patrick's father -- " underused " is too kind a word to describe his involvement ( " invisible " would be more like it ) . 
george dzundza gets to do a little scenery- chewing as an angry-but-inept general . 
meanwhile , justin lazard's performance as patrick is so flat that he makes natasha henstridge's limited abilities look good by comparison . 
the only one in the whole production with any energy is mykelti williamson , who is cast in the part of the wisecracking black sidekick . 
complete with cheesy special effects , bare breasts around every narrative corner , and dialogue capable of producing howls of laughter , species 2 has been dumped into the marketplace without advance screenings for critics . 
director peter medak , a journeyman film maker with a significant list of mediocre movies on his resume , has added another forgettable title , but at least he appears to have had fun doing it , which is more than can be said of anyone trying to take this film with even a scintilla of seriousness . 
do i recommend the movie ? 
absolutely not , but i will admit that species 2 is dopey enough that it didn't try my patience to the degree that some pseudo-intellectual bad movies do . 
here's hoping there's no species 3 . 
a number of critics have decided that it's open season on freddie prize jr . , slamming the young actor as an utterly talentless pretty boy on career cruise control in sound-alike , disposable teen fluff like " head over heels , " " boys and girls , " " down to you " and " she's all that . " 
while the prinze oeuvre is hard to defend , his talent is not . 
i first saw him in the independent dark comedy " the house of yes , " where he gave a subtle , impressive performance as the younger brother in one of america's freakiest families . 
prinze has the acting chops ; he just needs to take a few supporting roles in some grown-up movies to show the non-believers that he has what it takes . 
 " summer catch " certainly won't help his case . 
inoffensive , but utterly generic , the baseball-related romantic comedy does little more than kill time . 
the story deals with the love affair between tenley ( jessica biel ) , a wealthy cape cod girl and ryan ( prinze ) , a local boy from a working class family who dreams of becoming a big-time baseball star . 
ryan's preoccupation with his new honey-bunny drives her elitist father ( bruce davison ) crazy and endangers his position as pitcher with a cape cod summer league team . 
it's a wonder the kid has any time to pitch , as his time is occupied with making out with tenley , fighting with her dad , bonding with his own dad ( fred ward , who deserves better than this ) , fighting with his brother ( jason gedrick ) and carousing at a neighborhood bar with his teammates . 
the filmmakers desperately want to make a quirky , character-heavy baseball movie like " bull durham , " but haven't got a clue how to get there . 
and so they glide from one clich ? to the next for 108 minutes . 
the only bit of originality comes from marc blucas in a minor role as a center-fielder from texas . 
in an early barroom scene , blucas , best known as demon-fighting riley finn from " buffy the vampire slayer , " hears a young woman compliment a guy on his ass , then turns to teammate matthew lillard and states , " he does have a nice ass . 
a bubble butt . " 
when lillard gives him an " are you insane ? " 
look , blucas calmly says , " it's nothing sexual , " then goes on to evaluate the hind-ends of some other players , including lillard's . 
speaking of asses , prinze does not bare his in the movie . 
the actor has a no nudity clause in his contract , so two stunt-butts were employed for a couple of semi-nude shots . 
blucas , whose character secretly dates a large woman throughout the story , gets another unique moment late in the film . 
sick of hearing teammates make " fat chick " jokes , he climbs on top of a table and loudly declares his love of amply-sized ladies . 
while his speech still ends up objectifying women , it remains a nice change of pace in a numbingly ordinary movie . 
trivial tidbit : " summer catch " marks a scooby doo summit . 
marc blucas appears in " jay and silent bob strike back " as fred from the scooby doo gang , while freddie prinze jr . plays the same character in the upcoming big budget film version of the old cartoon . 
everybody in this film's thinking of alicia . 
no , this is not a documentary on those of us after we first saw the " cryin' " video . 
this is one of those erotic thrillers , but not like one starring shannon whirry or shannon tweed . 
first off , there's zero sex , almost no nudity , and it's not as well-plotted as one of those tweed flicks . 
well , anyway . 
the " plot . " 
alicia plays , well , the babysitter , who is taking care of some kids one night while the parents ( j . t . 
walsh and lee garlington ) go out to a party . 
the film , trying to be like one of those introspective erotic thrillers , shows every characters' thoughts , except alicia's . 
the thing is alicia's in most of them in most cases , and the thoughts aren't too kosher . 
first off , there's her boyfriend ( jeremy london , who gave one of the all-time lousy performances in " mallrats , " and is only a notch better here ) , who's a dorky kid who hangs out with a kind of bully , played by nicky katt from " suburbia " ( who shows he's got that quiet creepiness down pat once again ) . 
they decide they want to crash her babysitting job , looking for the typical babysitting hanky-panky . 
somethine like that . 
the film intercuts between the subplots ( alicia babysitting , nicky and jeremy , the party ) and each characters' thoughts . 
we get to see jeremy and nicky's dreams of doing a little threeway with alicia , j . t . 
thinking of coming home to find alicia naked in the bathtub ( she has it all covered up , the little tease ) , and , worst of all , lee garlington dreaming of that hunk , george segal . 
it even shows them in bed together . 
yea . 
i so wanted to see george and lee garlington in bed , though i guess i'm used to george after seeing her and mary tyler moore fooling around in " flirting with disaster . " 
the ending is some kind of big tragedy thing , but come on . 
like we care about any of the characters . 
the only interesting one is alicia , mainly because she's alicia , and we mostly see her in the fantasies . 
so i guess she's some kind of mystery or something . 
but she is never explored further . 
so , basically , this film is just a series of mastabatory images , sometimes featuring a non-nude alicia ( once again , sadly ) , sometimes featuring a scantily-clad george segal ( once again , sadly ) . 
i watched this on one of those free previews of showtime or cinemax one night , and let me tell you , it is the only way to watch this film . 
i mean , there's a reason they put these kinds of films on late at night : they're just as good as sleeping pills . 
and this one is one big fat waste of time , even for an alicia film . 
star wars : ? episode i -- the phantom menace ( 1999 ) 
director : george lucas cast : liam neeson , ewan mcgregor , natalie portman , jake lloyd , ian mcdiarmid , samuel l . jackson , oliver ford davies , terence stamp , pernilla august , frank oz , ahmed best , kenny baker , anthony daniels screenplay : george lucas producers : rick mccallum runtime : 131 min . 
us distribution : 20th century fox rated pg : mild violence , thematic elements 
copyright 1999 nathaniel r . atcheson 
a fellow critic once stated his belief that a reviewer should not speak of himself in his own review . 
i've attempted to obey this rule in recent months , but to do so would be impossible in this case . 
the fact is , nearly every person who goes to see the phantom menace brings baggage in with them . 
the original star wars trilogy means so much to so many people . 
for me , they calibrated my creativity as a child ; they are masterful , original works of art that mix moving stories with what were astonishing special effects at the time ( and they still hold up pretty darn well ) . 
i am too young to have seen star wars in the theater during its original release , but that doesn't make me any less dedicated to it . 
on the contrary , the star wars trilogy -- and the empire strikes back in particular -- are three items on a very short list of why i love movies . 
when i heard that george lucas would be making the first trilogy in the nine-film series , i got exited . 
when i first saw screenshots from the film , well over a year ago , i embarked on a year-long drool of anticipation . 
and when the first previews were released last thanksgiving , i was ready to see the film . 
but then there was the hype , the insane marketing campaign , and lucasfilm's secretive snobbery over the picture . 
in the last weeks before the picture opened , while multitudes of fans waited outside of theaters and stood in the boiling sun days in advance just to be the first ones in the theater , i was tired of hearing about it . 
i was tired of seeing cardboard cut-outs of the characters whenever i went to kfc or taco bell . 
i just wanted to see the movie . 
reader , do not misunderstand . 
i did not have an anti-hype reaction . 
the hype was unavoidable . 
i understand and accept the hype -- it's just what happens when the prequel to the most widely beloved films of all time get released . 
five minutes into the phantom menace , i knew there was a problem . 
 " who are these jedi knights ? " 
i asked . 
 " why are they churning out stale dialogue with machine-gun rapidity ? " 
 " why aren't these characters being developed before their adventures ? " 
 " why is there a special effects shot in nearly every frame of the entire film ? " 
these were just some of my questions early on . 
later , i asked , " where's the magic of the first three films ? " 
and " why am i looking at my watch every fifteen minutes ? ' 
by the end of the film , i was tired , maddened , and depressed . 
george lucas has funneled his own wonderful movies into a pointless , mindless , summer blockbuster . 
the phantom menace is no star wars film . 
take away the title and the jedi talk and the force , and you're left with what is easily one of the most vacuous special effects movies of all time . 
it's an embarrassment . 
i looked desperately for a scene in which a character is explored , or a new theme is examined , or a special effects shot isn't used . 
there are a few of each , but they're all token attempts . 
the fact is , george lucas has created what is simultaneously an abysmally bad excuse for a movie and a pretty good showcase for digital effects . 
this is not what i wanted to see . 
i didn't want to leave the phantom menace with a headache and a bitter taste in my mouth , but i did . 
the story centers mostly around qui-gon jinn ( liam neeson , looking lost and confused ) and his apprentice , obi-wan kenobi ( ewan mcgregor , who scarcely has a line in the film ) and their attempts to liberate the people of the planet naboo . 
naboo is the victim of a bureaucratic war with the trade federation ; their contact on naboo is queen amidala ( natalie portman ) , the teenage ruler who truly cares for her people . 
after picking up jar jar binks ( a completely cgi character , voiced by ahmed best ) , they head to tatooine , where they meet young anakin skywalker ( jake lloyd ) and his mother ( pernilla august ) . 
qui-gon knows that the force is strong with young anakin , and so the jedi knights take the boy with them on their journeys . 
the bad guys are darth maul and darth sidious , neither of whom have enough lines to register as characters . 
there isn't anything particularly wrong with this story when looking at it in synopsis form . 
the way lucas has handled it , however , it unsatisfactory . 
first of all , we don't learn one single thing about qui-gon jinn . 
not one thing . 
what was his life like before this film ? 
well , i imagine he didn't have one . 
that's why he feels like a plot device . 
this probably explains why neeson looks so hopeless in the role , and why he's recently retired from film ( i don't blame him , honestly ) . 
obi-wan , a character i was really looking forward to learning more about , is even less interesting . 
mcgregor has just a few lines , so anyone hoping to see the engaging young actor in a great performance is urged to look elsewhere . 
since these two men are the focus of the phantom menace , lucas has served us a big emotional void as the centerpiece of his movie . 
things start to pick up when our characters reach tatooine ; young anakin is perhaps the only truly fleshed-out character in the film , and lloyd does a thoughtful job with the role . 
i was also hugely impressed with the sand speeder scene ; rarely is an action sequence so fast and so exciting . 
and when anakin says goodbye to his mother , i found it moving . 
also fairly good is portman , and she manages to give a little depth to a character where no depth has been written . 
jar jar binks is one of the most annoying characters i've ever had to endure , but he's more interesting than most of the humans . 
as soon as the relatively-brief segment on tatooine is over , it's back to the mind-numbing special effects and depthless action scenes . 
i've seen many movies that qualify as " special effects extravaganzas , " but the phantom menace is the first one i've seen that had me sick of the special effects fifteen minutes into the movie . 
the reason is obvious : george lucas has no restraint . 
i can't say that i didn't find the effects original , because i did -- the final battle between darth maul , obi-wan , and qui-gon is visually exceptional , as is most of the film . 
but i also found the effects deadening and tiresome . 
my breaking point was near the end of the picture , as anakin is getting questioned by yoda and the other jedi masters ; in the background , we see hundreds of digital spaceships flying around through a digital sky , and i wanted that to go away . 
can't we have one stinking scene that isn't bursting at the seems with a special effects shot ? 
i got so sick of looking at the cgi characters and spaceships and planets and backgrounds that i really just wanted to go outside and look at a physical landscape for a few hours . 
and then there's the question of magic . 
what was lost in the sixteen years between the phantom menace and return of the jedi ? 
i have a feeling that lucas was so focused on how his movie looked that he forgot entirely the way it should feel . 
john williams' familiar score is no help , nor is lucas' direction . 
i think it comes right down to characters : there are none here . 
i longed for the magnetic presence of han , luke , and leia , but i got no such thing . 
and what about the ridiculous expectations ? 
mine weren't that high ; i simply wanted a film that showed me the roots of the films that i grew up loving , a story that had a few characters and a few great special effects . 
instead , i got two hours and fifteen minutes of a lifeless and imaginative computer graphics show . 
i don't hate the phantom menace as much as i resent it : i'd like to forget that it exists , and yet i can't . 
it's here to stay . 
i can only hope that episodes ii and iii have something of substance in them , because if they don't , then lucas will have pulled off the impossible task of destroying his own indestructible series . 
the lives of older people in the twilight of their years attempting to come to grips with their shared histories and possible futures is a fascinating topic . 
finding an all-star cast for such a film is a stroke of genius . 
combining all that with a three-time oscar-winning director ( robert benton of " kramer vs . 
kramer " ) and creating a decidedly mediocre movie is the stuff of disappointment . 
in yet another noir mystery set in hollywood -- how many of these have we seen during the past few years ? 
-- the atmosphere is moody , the actors enjoyable to watch and the story goes nowhere . 
over-70 harry ross ( paul newman ) is a washed up cop-turned-private eye-turned man friday trying to figure out how to live what remains of his life . 
he's screwed up things pretty well ( " i had a wife and daughter . 
now , i'm a drunk ) and is at a crossroads . 
a couple of years ago , he traveled to mexico to bring back mel ( reese witherspoon ) , the under-age daughter of jack ( gene hackman ) and catherine ( susan sarandon ) ames and now lives with them . 
the ames are former movie stars , past their prime and the three have become fast friends . 
one gets the impression that ross is just hanging out waiting for something to wake him up . 
to fill his time , he does odd jobs for jack and falls in love with catherine . 
jack is in even worse shape than harry . 
he's dying of cancer with only a year to live . 
things do turn more exciting when jack asks harry to drop off a sealed manila envelope for him . 
instead of the routine errand that ross expects , he walks into a barrage of bullets from the gun of another ex-cop who is , himself , full of bloody holes . 
this unsettling event gives the former detective a project to throw himself into and launches an investigation that revolves around the mysterious disappearance of catherine's first husband 20 years before . 
through a series of very complex and convoluted plot devices that involve murder ; blackmail ; guns ; mel's mexico traveling partner and his parole officer ; ross's former cop buddies , ex-lover and would-be sidekick , the tale finally ends up exactly where everyone expects it to . 
it's a film noir tradition that the story twists and turns down side roads for an unexpected finale , but here the journey meanders towards an ending that no one cares about . 
the only surprises are exactly whose face fits which role in the scenario . 
by the time they show you , it doesn't matter . 
the storyline gets goofier and goofier exemplified in ross's relationship with rubin ( giancarlo esposito ) , a partner wannabe . 
these scenes are obviously designed to be comic relief , however they are neither . 
rubin and ross have some past relationship but either it's not explained or i didn't care enough at that point to remember . 
a running joke about where harry was supposedly shot while in mexico is probably meant to mirror his questions about whether he is still able to perform . 
it's also not funny , doesn't connect and keeps on showing up long after it has run its course . 
on the positive side , it's often enjoyable to watch the seasoned actors on the screen . 
the three leads all have well-deserved academy awards and turn in accomplished , if not extraordinary jobs . 
newman is a grand actor , but doesn't seem quite suited to the dark film style . 
he is a bit too clean and understated to come across as desperate and down and out . 
hackman , also low-key , is believable but lacks sparkle . 
sarandon comes across well as an sultry older babe although she is one-dimensional . 
the actors do what they can with lame dialog , but they can't pull the film out of the hole it's dug for itself . 
james garner who plays ross's old buddy ex-cop raymond hope is always a treat , but even he half-heartedly struggles through lines like " i'm glad they didn't shoot your pecker off . " 
the best part of the film is the look at old friends , how their relationships change over the years and the difficult choices they must make . 
the genuinely easy and casual interactions among the actors hint that being on the set was much more interesting than what ended up on the screen 
the film doesn't run very long before the audience realizes that it's hopeless . 
the only reason for watching is the actors . 
it reminds me of disaster movies such as " towering inferno " where the star power is supposed to make everyone ignore the film's problems . 
in a better world , there would have been second-rate actors in this second-rate movie and the ones here would have been saved for something better . 
of course , we don't live in that better world , but you could make yours a little nicer by choosing a different movie . 
martial arts master steven seagal ( not to mention director ! ) has built a career out of playing an allegedly fictitious martial arts superman who never gets hurt in fights , talks in a hushed tone , and squints at any sign of danger . 
he's also the most consistent individual in hollywood today , since all his movies suck . 
they basically represent his egotisitical tendencies about his art ( that is , martial art ) . 
i'm sure the guy's good , and he seems like a nice guy on talk shows , although a tad haughty , but these movies he makes are all the same : a guy who is basically indestructable , is maybe wounded supposedly mortally , then comes back with a vengeance and goes buddha on all the baddies asses ( although i kinda liked " under siege " ) . 
of course , this one , as a change , has a " message " that is drilled into our mind . . . of 
course , after he blows up a lot of stuff and kills a bunch of people . 
so why do i watch his crap ? 
i usually don't . 
i will never , and you can hold me to this , i will never pay to see this man's movies , unless , and only unless , he's in a supporting role ( i . e . 
 " executive decision " ) and i'd definitely pay if he dies ( i . e . 
 " executive decision " ) . 
but this one has a special place in my heart . 
this doesn't mean it's good or that i even liked it . 
this was the last movie i watched with my deceased uncle , and we had one hell of a time ripping it apart a la " mystery science theatre 3000 , " and this was a couple years before i had heard of " mystery science theatre 3000 . " 
in this one , seagal plays a worker for a mining factory set in alaska and run by the greased-up typical shallow villain , this time played by an oscar-winner to give the movie some more clout - michael caine . 
it seems that caine wants to do something with his oil factory that includes him dumping oil all over inuit land . 
around the 20-30 minute point , seagal speaks up to him in what seems to be the typical speech to all the vain entrepeneurs ( what with his new " fire down below , " another " message film " ) , and caine has him bumped off . . . or 
does he ? 
seagal is rescued by some inuits , and falls in love with one of them , played by joan chen , who can act , hypothetically , but , for some reason , not here . 
one of caine's cliched henchmen ( played here with a lot of overacting by john c . mcginley ) shoots the cheif of the inuit clan , and chen and seagal go on a voyage to take down the oil factory . . . literally , 
of course . 
at one point , seagal gives a wonderfully hysterical speech about how he doesn't have any options but blow stuff up . 
he even goes as far as to say , " i don't want to kill someone , " and in the same breath , he asks some guy where the arsenal is . 
i have no problem with violence . 
i'm a huge john woo fan , but he paints his films with suspense , skill , style , depth , characterization , and just plain cool violence . 
in the films of seagal , the suspense mainly consists of the baddie attacking him stupidly , and him either wounding or killing them . 
at some points , they use the cliche of the talking villain , where the villain has the advantage , can shoot seagal , but begins talking by either telling him his big secret plan , or saying a corny line , to which seagal says something hokey back , and has had enough time to devise of a way to do away with them , and does . 
this would be okay if there were any suspense or if it didn't take itself seriously at all , like in the case of this summer's " con air . " 
but seagal is serious about his skill , and of course , his message . 
i wouldn't mind if this was a message film in the way that they present it to you with evidence . 
but seagal has no idea how to present a film where the message is subtle , not pounded into the viewer's mind . 
the villain is totally shallow and cartoonish , thus we can't take him and his motives seriously , and while seagal talks about being kind to the environment , he also goes ahead and blows up a square mile of rig , and kills some workers who were just doing his job . 
then at the end , he spends a good 10 minutes giving a speech , just in case you didn't get the message from the trailers . 
what seagal doesn't realize is that no one takes his films seriously ( although maybe a couple do ) and any message he has is no only redundant , but doesn't comfortably fit in his film , which is filled to the brim with hokey violence , crap suspense , stupid melodrama , and characters who have about as much emotional depth as a petri dish . 
as far as seagal and his acting , he's rather boring . 
he squints , he kills . 
period . 
nothing else . 
oh , yeah , there's corny one-liners ( " i'm gonna reach out and touch someone ! " ) . 
of course , he's the star , and we're supposed to root for him and all , so he makes all the villains unbelievably stupid and a bunch of jerks . 
michael caine , who's a great actor , is just supposed to yell and look cold . 
he does it well , i guess , but this is no " alfie . " 
of coure , no one was expecting that caliber of performance from him . 
his big henchman , john c . mcginley is kinda boring as well , but is not horrible . 
and we even get a small performance from that god of drill sergeants on celluloid , r . lee ermey ( from " full metal jacket " ) as a hired assasin squad leader who gets to say the obligatory speech about how dangerous seagal is , just for the movie trailers and for seagal's ego . 
and also , look for billy bob thornton as one of ermey's assasins . 
anyway , to conclude this all , to judge one of seagal's movies is to judge all of them ( except for " under siege " and " executive decision , " though the latter is not really a " seagal movie " ) . 
they all have this same formula , they all have the same action , same villain , same plot , but this one has that message , which makes it more excrucitating to watch . 
i mean , if you do rent it , and i don't reccomend you do , make sure you just skip the last 10 minutes . 
but i have to put it to seagal for creating a film so bad , that the last film i viewed with my uncle was a pleasurable one . 
my ( extra star for the fun it is to watch and mock ) 
arye cross and courteney cox star as a pair of bostonians who meet in a bar , go to the movies , fall in love , move in together , etc . 
review ====== 
well , if you haven't seen when harry met sally or he said , she said , or if you don't watch love & war on television , you might think this is the most inventive film to come along in ages . 
however , if you've seen any of these , than you have seen most of this film . 
this of course doesn't mean its bad . 
some of it is amusing , but overall , i just had to ask what's the point ? 
arye cross is the stereotypical single male who falls in love . 
kevin pollack is the stereotypical female-fearing best friend who make a lot of rather sexist and vulgar jokes , most if which weren't very funny . 
couteney cox is the stereotypical career-minded woman who falls in love . 
julie brown is the stereotypical bizarre best friend of said woman . 
 ( notice the frequent use of the word stereotypical . 
this film uses a lot of formula , the plot is basically known from the opening credits . ) 
so what is good about the movie ? 
well as i said there are a few amusing moments . 
surprisingly , julie brown , who i usually find just plain goofy , was the best thing in the film . 
also there are several very funny sequences involving analysis of the human mating ritual . 
gee , this is really short . 
not much to say about the film really . 
it is just kind of there . 
watching it on video might not be a complete waste of time , but i wouldn't recommend hiring a baby sitter or spending a lot of money to see it at the theatre . 
_soldier_ is hands down one of the worst movies a person could ever have to sit through that doesn't have jean claude van damme in it . 
i could liken it to the sci-fi cheese that was the hollywood product-of-choice back in the early 80s , but that would be too much of a compliment . 
if there is a movie theater in hell , this film is playing there 24 hours a day . 
the story , such that there is , revolves around todd ( kurt russell ) , an automaton of a man who has been raised from birth to be a merciless soldier in a not-too-distant ultra-conservative future ( is there any other kind ? ) 
after years of desensitization at a military academy full of other boys just like him , todd becomes a ground fighter in a series of wars all over the galaxy . 
who the enemies in these wars are is never revealed , but the few glimpses of todd in battle show that it doesn't matter , because innocent hostages are wiped out as indifferently as the bad guys . 
after ten minutes of this nihilistic trash -- yes folks , there's more -- we see todd as a buff , scarred adult , now so accustomed to the carnage that no confrontation at all causes him to break a sweat . 
there's a new wrinkle , though . 
todd and his brethren are declared obsolete , and a new batch of soldiers takes their place . 
after losing a sanctioned battle with _dragon_'s jason scott lee , the seemingly dead todd is dumped by a flying ice-cube tray ( well , that's what is looked like ) on a remote garbage planet . 
if you predict that todd meets a bunch of outcast settlers on this planet , and that they band together to fight a bunch of bad guys coming to destroy them , you're way ahead of the game . 
the renegade society on this trash heap is so clich you half-expect tina turner and master blaster to come strolling into frame any minute . 
it's surprising that _soldier_ is the brain-child of _blade runner_ co-writer david webb peoples . 
unlike that mind-twisting classic , this film contains just barely enough dialogue to fill about three double-spaced pages . 
add into the mix the _mortal kombat_'s paul anderson inept direction , and it's easy to see how _soldier_ turned out so bad . 
and the special effects ! 
remember the flying steam irons in hardware wars ? 
gary busey is in this movie . 
'nuff said . 
_soldier_ is proof that hollywood still has plenty of bad ideas sitting in its script vaults . 
that this sad film made it to the silver screen should encourage plenty of aspiring screenwriters out there that there is hope after all . 
now if you'll excuse me , i have to go weep for the future . 
it's a sad state of affairs when the back box blurb is more exciting than the movie contained within it . 
such is the case for the 1990 paul mayersberg film _the last samurai_ . 
though the blurb alludes to " a jungle filled with political intrigue , uneasy alliances , and murderous enemies at every turn , " the story of the movie is actually quite simple ( and prosaic ) : a middle-aged japanese businessman named endo ( played by john fujioka ) and his assistant , both of whom have samurai aspirations , travel to africa in search of his ancestor , who went to bring buddhism to africa . 
he hires the services of down-at-the-heels vietnam veteran pilot johnny congo ( the redoubtable lance henriksen ) and his girlfriend ( arabella holzbog ) , and travels to the camp of an arms-merchant-cum-safari-host- cum-islamic-missionary ( john saxon ) and his wife ( lisa eilbacher ) . 
they are all kidnapped by an african revolutionary guerilla with witch-doctor aspirations to conceal a pre-arranged arms deal , which subsequently falls through . 
congo escapes , finds endo's ancestor's sword , and comes back , guns blazing , to free the rest of them , and endo kills the revolutionary with the sword . 
the end . 
_the last samurai_ is one of those movies that is neither bad enough nor good enough to be enjoyable . 
it is merely _there_ . 
the murky plot is filled with subtexts that are never elaborated , subplots that are never explained , and many scenes that make very little sense at all . 
the film is shot through with all the tired old " inscrutable japanese samurai " and zen stereotypes that are to be expected from an american movie . 
it is quite slow-paced , with only a bit of action near the end , and the final duel between endo and the terrorist is quite anticlimactic . 
most of the acting is fair , with the possible exception of congo's girlfriend . 
lance henriksen is his usual scene-chewing self , and is one of few possible reasons anyone might conceivably have for seeing this movie . 
the only other bright spot is the sweeping african scenery . 
i paid $3 for this film , from the discount rack at best buy , and halfway suspect i overpaid for it . 
if you are in the mood for samurai , read a clavell novel or watch a kurusawa movie . 
skip _the last samurai_ unless you are a die-hard henriksen fan . 
birthdays often cause individuals to access their lives . 
are we doing what we want to be doing ? 
what happened to our dreams ? 
with the new millennium , our collective big birthday , just around the corner , some people are sensing a certain dissatisfaction with their existence . 
the old standbys of traditional religion and science aren't doing it for many anymore and they're looking for something else . 
we'll be seeing more and more films with a metaphysical theme over the next few years . 
ricky hayman ( jeff goldblum ) is having a career crisis . 
the programming director for the good buy home shopping network , he's going to be fired unless sales increase dramatically . 
new producer kate newell ( kelly preston ) is supposed to whip things into shape . 
when the two are fixing a flat , they almost run down new age pilgrim " g " ( murphy ) . 
g wanders onto the television set and connects with the viewers by telling them that they don't really want all that commercial crap . 
in some unexplained manner , this causes sales to sour . 
ricky is saved . 
the movie tries to be too much at once and fails at it all . 
it's not an over-the-top comedy or a heart-warming message of humanity . 
it _is_ a mish-mosh of poorly directed scenes made even worse by insipid dialog . 
i am willing to put up with preaching from a film , but the messages here are old hat . 
you should take time to smell the roses . 
selling your soul for cash is a bad idea . 
golly . 
i'm glad i saw the movie . 
i never would have thought of these . 
the opportunity to poke fun at the goofy products is mostly missed . 
when g takes a chainsaw to the set , there's an obvious chance for murphy to be hilarious . 
it doesn't happen . 
the bits are so subdued and overly-long that there's only a hint of laughter from the audience . 
murphy has changed his roles in recent years and not for the better . 
there are hints of promise in this one . 
the only time the film picks up even a little is when his shaved-headed character in the long flowing white caftan shows up on screen . 
the others are horrendous . 
goldblum has episodes of brilliance in his career , but here he seems to have been replaced with a lifeless pod from his " invasion of the body snatchers " . 
his relationship with kate makes no sense . 
they move from antagonism to love somewhere off screen . 
preston is as uninteresting as she could possibly be . 
somewhere hidden deep inside of this film is about ten minutes of value . 
an attempt to satirize stupid television , we get a self-parody instead . 
m : i-2 , the sequel to mission impossible , is a james bond wannabe film , but it fails to even come close to that film in wit , humor , and entertainment value . 
it tries to be a spy/romance movie , but without any suspense the film just looks like it's an extended commercial for dudes who think they look cool in throwaway sunglasses . 
it is a film that prefers techie gadgets to anything human . 
the coolest thing about this movie , was all the holes it had in its story and the most trite thing about the movie , was the usage of doves throughout as peace symbols . 
the film plays as if it was a wet fantasy dream about techie violence . 
except for the choreographed action sequences , the film was dull for three-quarters of its time , filled with too many dead spots in its story to garner concern about its wooden characters or the superficial romance that developed . 
as for the action scenes , they might look good to those who are converts to violence in their films , but their advertisement for sadistic responses , is nothing short of mindless cartoon violence , which makes it very difficult to sit back and applaud without feeling put off by the gratuitous cruelty seen . 
m : i-2 opens and closes with fast-paced action scenes , but it is hard to get past the middle part which just drags on in banal dialogue . 
the film looks as if it had been invaded by a computer virus , at that point . 
the only thing that kept me awake , was the horrible music composed by hans zimmer that became very loud at any of the film's supposedly momentous action scenes and seemed to make an uninteresting scene even more noticeable in the wrong way . 
it's a mega-buck film adapted from a popular high-tech gadgetry tv series . 
but its artistic success is an impossible task to accomplish because it hired the wrong director and actors to star in it , and it failed to produce a story that had any substance . 
john woo ( " broken arrow " / " face/off " ) is good at doing car chases , choreographed fights with midair flips and kung-fu kicks , slo-mo shots of two guns blazing , and of fire explosions , but he just can't seem to handle dialogue and suspense . 
the star of the film and co-producer , tom cruise , and his romantic interest , thandie newton , are miscast . 
cruise is no james bond and looks more like a yuppie than a superhero in his stylish long hair and innocuous smile , as he tries to carry off this macho role , while thandie is not an action-film girl , and seems like a fish- out-of-water in this one . 
their romance didn't work , not only was it tepid and not sexy , but it wasn't convincing . 
the film opens with dizzying speed , perhaps with the hope that a befuddled audience is its best bet for success . 
we will be in three different locations instantaneously : sydney , the american southwest , and seville . 
first , we are in sydney , australia , where a scientist with a muffled russian accent , dr . nekhorvich ( rade ) , mentions that he created a deadly killer virus called chimera and an antidote for it . 
he also mentions that every hero needs a worthy villain . 
which explains the film's mythic theme . . . as 
we enter the world of comic book myths on good and evil . 
the one who played the villain , dougray scott , does so in a one-dimensional gruff tone , which did not distinguish him in that role . 
at least , if the film got the villain part right , it might have had some fun with this nonsense . 
soon the diabolical scientist is on a plane talking to someone he trusts called dimitri , but then the plane is taken over by terrorists who set it on automatic pilot and crash it into the rocky mountains . 
before they crash the plane and parachute out of it , the one who was posing as dimitri , turns out to be sean ambrose ( scott ) , a rogue member of the imf , which is a cia-like clone . 
he steals the package with the antidote , peels off a latex mask , which is a replica of the hero of the story , ethan hunt ( cruise ) , who had posed as dimitri to the scientist before and had thereby gained his trust . 
sean and his group of terrorists carry out this attack because they plan a virus plague on the world and then to sell the victims the antidote at marked up prices . 
we already saw the gimmick of peeling masks used in face/off and in the original mission impossible , which as convoluted a plot as that film had , it was still a superior film to this sequel . 
woo has run this peeling mask routine into the ground , as it is used so often in this film by both sides , so much so , that it blurs any ethical character differences between good guy or villain . 
it makes it seem as if anyone could be another character , which distorts the reality of the film and makes it impossible for the film to make much sense . 
next we are in a mountain range in the american southwest , and ethan is on vacation , hanging by his fingertips while climbing and looking cool , when a helicopter with his boss anthony hopkins aboard , delivers via a rocket launcher , a pair of talking sunglasses . 
hunt learns his next mission is to retrieve the chimera package and he is allowed to pick two regular imf agents to help , billy baird ( john polson ) and luther stickell ( ving rhames ) , with luther running a high-gadget computer , but he also must get a jewel thief named nyah hall ( thandie ) to join his team . 
he is told , as an incentive to recruit her , all her criminal charges will be dropped . 
hopkins then signs off with the tag line : this message will self-destruct in five seconds . 
actually , with the departure of hopkins , it was this disposable film that actually self-destructed at this point . 
in seville , hunt recruits nyah into the team in the middle of a jewel heist and a subsequent car chase , where he nearly runs her audi sports car over the side of a mountain road . 
he also falls for her when this was only supposed to be a business deal , and learns that she is valuable because her ex-boyfriend was sean ambrose and that he still wants to f * ck her . 
the imf team then inject a location tracer chip into her to spot sean so she can go f * ck him , as she leads them to his hide-out in the seaside of australia in which he shares with his sneering villainous cohort , the south african , hugh stamp ( richard roxburgh ) . 
robert towne , the screenwriter , who contributed to the first " mission , " who is noted for doing " chinatown " -- writes a colorless , pedestrian script , one that fails even to be funny in a camp way . 
the terrorists , who aim to rule the world , are interested in owning 51 percent in a biotech company and in getting stock options , as they plan to infect sydney with the virus and have their company sell the antidote , insuring that they will make billions on the stock . 
ethan comes to the rescue of the world and of nyah , with his only conflict being who is more important to save first . 
ethan does this rescue against all odds , as he finds a way to penetrate a security tight biotech company , fight it out with sean and the other terrorists , and rescue nyah , who injected herself with the virus to hinder sean's getting it , as the only way to transport the virus is through another person or from the vaccine needle . 
ethan rescues her by doing stunt riding on a motorcycle , using kick-boxing , winning a shootout , throwing a full john wayne supply of grenades at the terrorists , making some more use out of that peeling mask bit , and by being completely fearless and larger than life , while he kick's everyone's ass . 
if i was only entertained by this . . . i 
could have lived with it . 
but this film was so badly made , that it was like watching a highlight film of a basketball game , seeing only the slam-dunks , but with the game itself being excluded from the telecast . 
in any case , this is a critic-proof film , and will in all probability do well in the box office , as it was made to appeal to all the demographics who find commercial ventures like this one easy to buy into . 
ex-universal soldier luc has to battle a group of newer-model engineered fighters gone bad . 
the review 
jean-claude van damme has a one-liner early on in universal soldier : the return , his latest attempt to remain relevant , that sums up this entire movie ; he says " been there , done that . " 
no film critic could possibly sum up van damme's recent film choices any better . 
while other ageing action stars have wisely moved into other film genres ( schwarzenegger makes as many family comedies as he does action films ) , van damme stubbornly persists in sticking with what used to work for him : martial arts and guns . 
this unwillingness or perhaps inability to move into new genres has caused van damme to enter the straight to video world , with legionnaire never seeing the inside of a multiplex . 
he joins fellow martial artist/action star steven seagal as they watch their film careers rapidly fizzle away . 
universal soldier : the return is truly poor . 
the plot is a complete copy of several action films from this decade , specifically terminator 2 : judgement day and the similarly named soldier . 
soldier's kurt russell was an older model super-soldier sent off to retirement when circumstances forced him to battle his successors , for the good of a planet ; schwarzenegger's terminator in t2 tried to save john connor from a newer model killing machine , the t-1000 ; and jean-claude , a former universal soldier , has to save the planet from the rampage of a group of , you guessed it , newer model soldiers . 
considering the poor box office performance of soldier , it's amazing that this project was ever given the go-ahead . 
luc devereaux ( van damme ) was the sole remaining universal soldier ( or unisol for short ) , until he was returned to a normal , if muscular , human form . 
in this sequel ( technically the fourth film in the series , following two straight-to-video duds that were ignored here plot-wise ) , luc is now a human trainer/consultant of sorts for the unisol program . 
working with dylan cotner ( xander berkeley , who interestingly also appeared in t2 ) , the unisol program has engineered a tougher , fiercer fighting force with the help of super-computer seth . 
unfortunately , upon hearing that the program has been axed by the government , seth takes control of his soldiers , killing everyone in the building except for luc , his partner maggie , his daughter hillary and erin , a reporter trapped inside . 
the rest of the film involves luc trying to keep them all alive , while beating up a group of near-indestructible soldiers , most notably romeo ( popular wrestler goldberg ) . 
there are lots of fights , gun battles , lame plot developments and a noticeable lack of plausibility . 
there are so many clich ? s in this film that it is almost painful to watch . 
luc gets saddled with the task of saving erin the reporter early on , and in the course of a single night , they go from bickering to falling for each other , to kissing . 
erin is a pathetically-written character ; people are getting brutally gunned down all around her , and yet , not only does this not seem to frighten her , but she finds time to remind luc that she " isn't leaving without her story " . 
whatever . 
other laughable moments include a ) luc going to a strip club to get internet access ( what ? ) and b ) a group of rangers , who after having been given good advice ( luc tells them that their weapons are useless , and shows them a specific gun which should work better ) , choose to go into battle with their useless weapons anyway ( guess who wins the battle ? ) . 
not one single scene in universal soldier : the return has any originality to it . 
when fuelled by don davis' loud , driving music score , the film's many fights become almost passable , but mostly are full of the same ol' jean-claude moves . 
director mic rodgers ( a former stunt co-ordinator ) keeps the action coming at a rapid pace , with only a few token serious moments to be found . 
his past work is evident in the many moments when characters are thrown through windows , tossed off of buildings or sent flying through the air thanks to an explosion . 
if only jean-claude weren't getting so old and slow compared to younger martial arts film actors like jet li , rodgers could probably have made a decent action film . 
to place the blame squarely at van damme's feet , however , is an injustice . 
i'm not sure that anyone , not even robert deniro or edward norton , could make writers william malone and john fasano's script sound good . 
one particularly painful scene is when erin asks luc how he is so sure that the aforementioned strip club will have internet access . 
he cringes , looks down and mutters " uh . . . uhm . . . 
they all do , i saw it on 60 minutes . 
eh he he he " the script's and indeed the entire film's only saving grace is goldberg . 
he chews up every scene he is in , obviously enjoying his role immensely . 
he even gives the film a few laughs , as he mutters things like " i really don't like that guy " every time he fails to kill luc . 
sadly , his presence is not enough to turn universal soldier : the return into anything better than a below-average action film that truly deserves to have joined its fellow sequels by going straight-to-video . 
the plot of big momma's house is martin lawrence in a fat suit and a dress . 
that's not just the high-concept premise ; it's the fully-realized , all-encompassing plot . 
such an emphasis is not unheard-of in the world of hollywood summer entertainment . 
one need merely look back to last summer , when the plot of big daddy was adam sandler being an incompetent surrogate parent . 
the trap inherent in such an approach is that the high-concept plot idea better be pretty well-realized , or rest on the shoulders of an extremely talented performer , because you can bet there will be nothing else worth a second of your time -- not a developed character , not a provocative theme , not a witty twist . 
you will get 90-plus minutes of martin lawrence in a fat suit and a dress -- nothing more , nothing less . 
those who find martin lawrence more than an occasionally amusing screen presence may have a shot at enjoying the one-note dud that is big momma's house . 
others will simply stare , mouth agape , at its sheer unapologetic laziness . 
lawrence plays fbi agent malcolm turner , an undercover expert on a stakeout assignment with his partner john ( paul giamatti ) . 
dangerous convicted bank robber and murderer lester vesco ( terrence howard ) has escaped from prison , and the feds think he's headed for his former girlfriend and presumed-but-never-proved accomplice sherry ( nia long ) . 
sherry , however , has fled with her son trent ( jascha washington ) , possibly to visit her grandmother hattie mae ( ella mitchell ) , better known as big momma . 
indeed , sherry appears to be on her way , but big momma is headed out of town without knowing sherry is coming . 
that leaves master of disguise malcolm to go under very heavy cover as big momma and find out what sherry knows . 
big momma's house's bloodlines are certainly traceable to mrs . 
doubtfire -- director raja gosnell edited that film , and the makeup effects were similarly created by greg cannom -- but there's just as strong a whiff of tootsie in the main character's attempt to use his alternate identity to get closer to a woman . 
unfortunately , big momma's house makes a ridiculous decision neither of those other films made : instead of having the protagonist pose as a completely manufactured character unfamiliar to anyone elses , it places malcolm in the position of playing a friend and family member to several other characters . 
suspension of disbelief in big momma's house requires you to believe every other person in the film is blind and/or stupid , since no one notices that one big momma looks or sounds absolutely nothing like the other . 
of course , laughs trumps logic every time , and big momma's house probably still would have worked in spite of its utter disdain for common sense if it had just managed to be funny . 
and it misses its best possible opportunity for some great farce by ignoring the simple fact that the real big momma is set up as a foul-tempered beast , while malcolm has to be nurturing in order to get the information he wants out of sherry . 
unfortunately , no one involved appears to have the faintest idea how to deal with the comic gold mine involved in one real person pretending to be another , very different real person , so they fall back on an endless parade of sight gags : malcolm reacting violently to big momma's explosive diarrhea attack ; malcolm-as-momma schooling a pair of cocky teens in basketball ; malcolm trying to avoid detection as various prostheses give way at inopportune moments ; malcolm delivering a baby because big momma is the town midwife ( one of the few sequences that works ) . 
martin lawrence can be likeable enough at times , but there's no reason to care a whit about his budding romance with sherry because malcolm is never an independently significant character . 
he's just big momma without the makeup on . 
i won't waste time commenting on how ineptly the set-up of the escaped convict is employed , since it was clearly a waste of time to the film-makers . 
there are a few token scenes of lester looming as a threatening figure , but he's ultimately a distraction in a film that's really about its central visual incongruity ( and the accompanying lascivious glances at nia long's posterior ) . 
i'm never prepared to underestimate how appealing that idea may be to other people -- several million of them apparently found adam sandler as an incompetent surrogate parent appealing -- but i know that when a film-maker tries to throw a concept at me and pretend that it's an entire film , i duck out of the way . 
the gross implausibility of big momma's house might have been tolerable if it was seasoned with more big , cleverly-constructed laughs . 
its lack of big laughs might have been tolerable if its characters were at all relevant . 
big momma's house is ridiculous _and_ not funny . 
it's just a sad exercise in the jaded presumption that any scene should be considered wacky and hilarious if it involves martin lawrence in a fat suit and a dress . 
starring william baldwin ; cindy crawford & steven berkoff all right , the first problem that fair game has is the casting of supermodel cindy crawford in the lead role . 
not that cindy does that bad , it's just that anyone who watches this film knows from moment one that that little bit of casting was not done because of cindy's extraordinary acting skills , but for her extraordinary ability to look drop dead gorgeous in any situation . 
and in fair game most situations tend to find cindy either soaking wet or very hot and sweaty , but i'm sure that that is just a coincidence , no doubt that these situations were essential to the plot and the fact that cindy looks great wet , well , that's just a happy coincidence . 
sure . 
william baldwin isn't a bad actor . 
unfortunately , he just doesn't demonstrate it at all in this movie . 
i'm not sure if that's because most of his lines were just so hokey , or if he was trying to make cindy's acting look good . 
if it was the latter , it worked . 
cindy does a surprisingly good job here in her first movie . 
which is not to say that she doesn't have room for improvement . 
although to be fair to cindy , her lines were kinda cheesy in places . 
so right about now you are no doubt asking yourself what sort of movie does cindy crawford , arguably the most beautiful woman on the planet , chose for her foray into the world of cinema ? 
well , i'm glad you asked that question . 
cindy plays a lawyer who by some convoluted plot twists becomes a target for former elite kgb agents . 
why woud they target someone as likable as cindy , you ask ? 
by the end of the movie you won't care . 
the story is so contrived it isn't funny . 
anyway after cindy gets blown out of the window of her house , without getting so much as a scratch i might add , she is placed into protective police custody under the watchful eve of william baldwin . 
who's character , max kilpatric , a police detective , seems to possess the skills of some sort of fighting machine ( my guess is that the writers have seen way too many of steven seagal's early films ) . 
the point is that the idea of the crawford and baldwin's characters of the run from these killer russians isn't all that bad of an idea , it's just everything around that basic idea which kinda stinks out loud . 
the supporting cast members are nothing more that over acted stereotypes . 
if i was baldwin , i'd hope this film disappears . 
as for crawford , she may indeed have some acting ability . 
unfortunately , any she does have is obscured by writing that goes beyond bad . 
this movie was obviously written with cindy in mind , since the writers spend most of their time finding ways to capitalize off of her looks . 
it's too bad they hadn't spent more time on a half decent plot , since ms . crawford is more than capable of looking just fine all by herself thank you very much . 
unless you are a huge fan of either baldwin or crawford this is a movie that will only disappoint you . 
take a look at the following equation . . . . 
a christmas carol+ghostbusters=scrooged 
yes , scrooged is the odd mixture of sentiment , comedy and horror you would get if you mixed those two elements toghether . 
scrooged is alternatively sick , gross , funny , and then sickly soppy . 
bill murray plays frank cross , a t . v executive with a horrible personality . 
he's evil to secretary , actors , crew , everyone , except the t . v's station's boss , of course ( played by the late robert mitchum ) however , he is then visited by a very dead exec , who warns cross that he will be visited by three ghosts , past , present and future ( who is called the ghost of yet to come , for some reason ) sure enough , they arrive , show cross how much of a s . o . b he is , and he changes his way . 
however , throughout this simple plot , we've got to suffer outlandish special effects , poor comedy , and an very , very mean performance from bill murray . 
frank cross isn't 'funny' mean , he's just mean . 
he also isn't very good at emotional scenes , and totally destroys the last ten minutes of the film , with an utterly desperate speech saying how great christmas is , and how he has changed . 
however , the supporting cast are ok , with good performances from mitchum , allen ( who plays his girlfriend ) and john glover ( who plays cross's 'partner' ) the ghost of christmas past isn't that bad either . 
sadly , though , the audience has to suffer 25 minutes of 'home alone' style violence from the ghost of christmas present , played by carol kane . 
whoever thought smacking that kane smacking murray in the head with a toaster was funny , should be fired straight away . 
and the audience also has to suffer bobcat goldthwait ( the guy with the annoying voice in police academy 3 , if i remeber correctly . . . . ) 
who , thankfully , dosen't say much . 
the script is horrendous . 
michael o'donaghue churns out terrible , bad taste jokes ( which i guess is the whole point really ) then changes direction completely to emotional scenes . 
and he must of been on some drug when he wrote the final ten minutes , which are awful . 
the special effects look nice , but do nothing for the film . 
there's some impressive make up effects also . 
the music is also good , which is scored by danny elfman . 
but great effects and make up don't make a great film . 
scrooged is an appaling attempt to inject some christmas spirit into the audience , seeing as the first 1 hour 20 minutes of the film are so depressing anyway , and the last ten minutes had to make up for it with an godawful speech . 
why didn't cross just look out his exec window , and ask a young boy to buy a goose for him ? 
overall , then , you'd have a much better christmas if you avoid this film like something that should be avoided ( perhaps a plague ) 
synopsis : a maniac , crazed by virulent microphage , slaughters more than twenty people , including a street gang and heavily-armed troops , with a small knife . 
even with a handgun , however , he can't take out the two cops who are after him , despite having shot one of them a total of seven times . 
comments : the most notable aspect of adrenalin : fear the rush is that it marks a striking career move for natasha henstridge . 
not only does she manage to keep all her clothes on ( her trademark in earlier films such as species and maximum risk was to strip naked as often as possible ) , but she actually puts on even more clothes as the film progresses . 
this will probably disappoint many henstridge fans , but i welcome the change because henstridge is an attractive , capable actress who deserves less exploitative roles ( though , i admit , it doesn't show in this mess ) . 
henstridge , just like every other actor in the film , delivers a wooden performance in this monumental turkey . 
 ( the cast also includes christopher lambert , who has appeared in the highlander and mortal kombat films . ) 
how on earth this movie got two big-name stars to appear in it is beyond me . 
adrenalin : fear the rush is set in boston ten years in the future ( 2007 ) . 
boston has changed dramatically in those ten years . 
it is now home to a bunch of interred foreigners and policed by cops who drive around in small cars with " policia " printed on their doors . 
some guy has a really bad virus , and he's killing people because of it . 
so , the brave good guys ( lambert and henstridge ) go after him . 
that's it . 
76 minutes never seemed so long . 
this is a drawn-out chase scene through dimly-lit abandoned buildings turned into an entire movie . 
the plot development is nil ; we learn absolutely nothing about lambert's character and very little about henstridge's character . 
the dialogue is littered with unnecessary obscenities and concerns mindnumbingly idiotic arguments over who will go down the next dark corridor/tunnel/airduct next and who will carry the flashlight . 
a subplot does exist involving henstridge's character's illegal attempt to get her son out of boston . 
in her opening monologue , a monologue which sounds as though henstridge was reading from cue cards , we learn that she has gone to great lengths to secure a fake passport for her son . 
twenty minutes into the film , i wondered if the movie would have been better if it focused on this plot . 
in a defining scene of the movie , however , i changed my mind . 
this fake passport drops to the ground . 
lambert's cop immediately recognizes it as a fraud from six feet away . 
must not have been a good fake . 
this emphasizes another fault with the film . 
things just defy common sense . 
lambert's cop , for instance , is shot seven times , yet he is still able to talk and slide about . 
adrenalin : fear the rush ends in a trite manner that doesn't seem to even fit the mood that the filmmakers were trying for . 
i found myself rather bored with this film , which will disappoint both sci-fi/horror fans and fans of henstridge and lambert . 
don't fear the rush . 
fear the movie . 
watch something else . 
post-chasing amy , a slew of love-triangle movies : this month we have kissing a fool , co-starring amy's own lee , and april brings us the object of my affection , which may as well be titled chasing allan , for it is the story of a woman who falls in love with her gay roommate . 
 ( to be absolutely six degrees of kevin bacon about it , that film stars schwimmer's friend jennifer aniston . ) 
if only kevin smith could write them all . . . 
schwimmer stars as womanizing chicago sportscaster max , who falls in love with his best friend jay ( lee ) 's book editor samantha ( avital ) a mere twenty-four hours after meeting her . 
they are soon engaged , and max , because of his own raging libido , grows suspicious of samantha's fidelity . 
he convinces jay to flirt with samantha during the development of his book , to " test her " . 
the trouble is , jay might be secretly in love with her . 
to stretch this flat , sitcom premise to feature length , the plot is framed by a climactic wedding , at which bonnie hunt recounts the triangular tale--the events leading up to the nuptials--to an annoying fat man and his silly girlfriend . 
hunt has the best comic timing of anyone in the film ; schwimmer can spin bad dialogue into mildly humorous dialogue ; and lee , poor lee , is miscast . 
so hysterically funny in chasing amy , here he is forced to repress his comic instincts : to swear , to yell , to talk about oral sex . . . 
the script's idea of a character trait is to stress that jay is a " sensitive man " , and then show him drinking pepto bismol when he's stewing over his girl trouble . 
as for avital , an israeli actress , she is warm and sweet , but we don't know anything about her character other than that it takes her an incredibly long time to realize the most obvious things . 
she also too closely resembles the stunningly beautiful kari wuhrer , who plays schwimmer's assistant and personal temptress , turning that particular subplot into an unintentional riff on vertigo . 
there are a handful , a smattering , of good scenes in kissing a fool . 
i enjoyed a moment in a comedy club , during which jay gets up and asks " has anyone here ever hated their girlfriend so much you wanted to kill her ? " 
over and over until he's booted off stage . 
there are also a few obviously improvised lines that are fresher than anything that's on the page . 
kissing a fool is never as clever as the thursday night joke-machine friends that spawned schwimmer's movie career , so save yourself eight dollars and watch three episodes of that series back to back . 
yet another brainless teen flick , this one is about , surprise , drugs and sex . 
stars katie holmes and sarah polly couldn't look more bored . 
their characters are cardboard cut-outs of every cliched teenager out there . 
one thing you need to know is i really hated this movie . 
everything about it annoyed the hell out of me . 
the acting , and script , the plot , and ending . 
the director ( of the fluke hit swingers ) could have very well directed a bunch of no-name actors and had a watchabe film . 
the " big " stars of go pretty much drown the project of any originality . 
i felt like i was watching dawson's creek episode 200 . 
although the film still would have stayed at red despite its cast . 
the " surprise " ending was sooo predictable . 
since when is a male character's sudden outing of the closet considered a surprise in hollywood anymore ? ? 
go is dawson's creek + varsity blues - she's all that = go home and watch something else . 
set in harlem during the great depression , rival gangster " families " go to war over control of " the numbers " , an illegal gambling lottery . 
 " runners " take bets from potential lottery winners and deliver them to private locations for drawings . 
the undisputed leader of the harlem numbers is the madame queen ( cicely tyson ) who is challenged by dutch schulz ( tim roth ) , a ruthless hoodlum . 
by turning against the queen , dutch defies his partner , the infamous lucky luciano ( andy garcia ) , who wishes to respect the queen and keep the peace . 
the queens' army strengthens when an acquaintance , ellsworth " bumpy " johnson ( lawrence fishburne ) is released from prison and becomes a bodyguard for her . 
he proves himself worthy in short time as he thwarts an assassination attempt ( on himself and the queen ) , and later takes control of the queens army when she is jailed for tax evasion . 
bumpy's reign is not as restrained and subdued as the queen and he declares all out war on dutch . 
bloody gang warfare ensues . 
bumpy faces many obstacles during his reign . 
his new army questions his methods . 
his girlfriend ( vanessa l . williams ) and the queen disagree with his violent solutions . 
most importantly ( in his eyes ) , dutch has become a more formidable foe than he imagined , and seeks help from lucky luciano to assassinate him . 
there have been so many movies dealing with organized crime that it must be hard to write an original story dealing with it . 
this movie is not original at all . 
in fact , i was angered by how many similarities there was between this film and , arguably , the best gangster movie of all time , the godfather . 
if you are going to borrow ideas from another movie and not give credit , why not borrow from a lesser known movie ( say , millers crossing ? ) . 
how could the credited screenwriter chris brancato not give credit to mario puzo himself ? 
here are just some of the major similarities ( i stopped counting at 10 ) . 
crooked cop assaults blood relative of the leader . 
gang extracts revenge on crooked cop . 
wife ( or girlfriend ) questions her partners' murderous activities and leaves him . 
high ranking " officer " betrays the leader . 
blood relative of the leader murdered . 
war erupting between the " families " . 
high-ranking officer disapproves of the leader in front of other family members . 
new leader runs family differently from previous leader . 
large meeting with all families involved . 
the setup in this movie is done rather well . 
i enjoyed the portrayal of the network of " runners " sprinting through the streets collecting bets for the queens lottery . 
this was the way of life in harlem , and most people involved with the queen did so because it was the only way to support their families and put food on the table . 
number running was the only way for the harlem population to find work . 
i also enjoyed the interaction between the angry , violent dutch and the calm , patient lucky . 
after about the 30-40 minute mark all of the similarities with the godfather start appearing , one after the other ( and in short order ) . 
it was a huge distraction , and an insult to my intelligence . 
who was the screenwriter kidding here ? 
some of the individual performances were well done . 
andy garcia was very convincing as lucky , unfortunately his screen time is reduced to a supporting role . 
tim roth effectively plays the cocky villain , much like his roles in " the cook , the thief , his wife and her lover " and " rob roy " . 
the good performances and convincing setup during the first third of the movie do not make up for the lackluster story that follows . 
a couple of coincidences is one thing , over a dozen is an insult . 
directed by bill duke 
ellsworth bumpy johnson . . . . . . . lawrence 
fishburne dutch schultz . . . . . . . . . . . . tim 
roth lucky luciano . . . . . . . . . . andy 
garcia the queen . . . . . . . . . . . . . cicely tyson francine hughes . . . . . . . . . . vanessa 
l . williams illinois gordon . . . . . . . . . . chi 
mcbride 
written by randy turgeon , january 22 , 1998 
at first glance , i thought that the sword and the sorceror had promise . 
its plotline goes like this : the evil king cromwell , desiring to take over the world , resurrects an evil , ancient sorceror , xusia for power . 
he attacks the kingdom of eh-dan and kills young prince talon's parents . 
given a triple-bladed sword ( which can shoot bad guys , like a gun ) by his dying father , talon vows for revenge . 
eleven years later , when he's established his own army , the mercaneries , he vows to take back his kingdom . 
along the way , he meets up with alana , whose village is attacked by drunken guards and her brother is kidnapped by cromwell . 
talon vows to help , and , after a series of minor escapades , eventually ends up rescuing alana's brother ( and several other prisoners ) , only to be captured himself ( in other words , put on a cross to be crucified ! ) . 
fortunately he frees himself , rescues alana from marrying cromwell , defeats xusia , and then cromwell , all with his triple bladed sword ( during the final battle , the blade breaks , but talon finishes cromwell off by using a hidden dagger in the blade ) . 
then , everything ends happily . 
unfortunately , the sword and the sorcerer is not even half as good as it sounds . 
what would have been a great film is completely destroyed by uneven plot jumping , bad acting , and gruesomely gory , bloody scenes . 
never once does the story seem to connect together , it just jumps around repeatedly . 
this problem is extremely noticeable in the opening scene where cromwell resurrects xusia . 
after telling him that he needs his help , he leads the warlock out into daylight , but then stabs him and sends him careening off a cliff afterwards . 
wait a minute , didn't the plotline say that he needs the help of xusia in order to invade eh-dan , which he cannot do by military force ? 
if that is the case , why does he dispose of xusia after resurrecting him ? 
and why does he manage to take over eh-dan anyway ? 
these questions are just never - no , never - answered in the film . 
another example is that one moment we see talon fighting for his life , another moment we see him just about to be crucified during alana's wedding to cromwell ( ! ) , and finally at the end , instead of settling down with alana , he just tells her to " wait " , and then he just rides off ! 
in addition to the extremely bloody scenes , this uneven plot jumping completely destroys what would have been a great fantasy adventure . 
even some attempts to make it exciting , a few fire scenes , battle scenes , don't work . 
it just completely fails altogether miserably . 
the only good thing about this film is its musical score , contributed by david whittaker , who had an ( extremely ) short music composing career . 
the score is boomy and adventurous , powerful , and a billion times better than this film is . 
my suggestion : steer the hell away from this bloody mess and buy the soundtrack album instead ( if you can find it ) . 
ironically , though , before the film's credits roll , there is a message indicating that a sequel , tales of the ancient empire , would follow . 
to my relief ( and delight ) , it never got into production , because the sword and the sorcerer laid an egg at the box office , grossing only $39 million . 
critics were right on in slamming the sword and the sorcerer , all right . 
leonard maltin rightfully called it " second rate in scripting , and acting " and at-a-glance film reviews called it " a confusing , stupid , unimaginative , unengaging , bloodfilled bore " . 
i totally agree with these reviews , all right , and i hope that this piece of #$% ! 
will be forgotten about . 
there are far better fantasy movies than the sword and the sorcerer . 
i hope you get a good laugh out of this review , but i am not laughing . 
in fact , my insults don't even come close to the gruesome sickness that this film gave me throughout its 100 minute running time . 
this movie stinks ! 
although it is professionally crafted and there are some decent performances , the plot is so bad it drags the film into the abyss . 
i knew i was in for trouble when , during the opening establishment shots , we see a detailed close-up of warrant officer paul brenner's ( john travolta ) military identification card and it is the wrong color . 
this might seem like a minor detail , but anyone who has spent anytime with the military knows that active duty identification cards are green and dependant cards are yellow . 
and what about the senior military officer whose uniform shirt is so wrinkled he looks like he is a recruit on his first day of training . 
or what about when brenner tells a suspect that , because he is in the military , he doesn't have the right not to answer his questions even though these rights were central to military law well before the miranda decision . 
how hard is it to get someone familiar with the military to check these facts ? 
now details like this could be overlooked if the underlying story held up , but this story is so full of holes it is painful to sit through . 
for example , at the beginning of the film , paul brenner , an undercover army investigator , gets into a gun and knife battle at his off-post houseboat and winds-up killing an arms dealer he had been investigating . 
the local police investigating the death are openly hostile to the military and they discover that brenner has been lying to them about the killing . 
but instead of arresting him , or at least take him into custody for further questioning , they release him . 
duh ! 
ultimately , brenner gets assigned to investigate the murder and possible rape of the commanding general's daughter , a young captain also assigned to the post . 
when brenner finds graphic sex tapes featuring the general's daughter , does he use them to generate a suspect list and begin grilling suspects . 
no , his instinct is to suppress them because they might be potentially embarrassing . 
eventually , brenner discovers that this murder is related to a violent gang rape at west point eight years earlier . 
i won't even go into the totally unbelievable rationale for the army's suppression of this horrendous crime . 
i will just mention one final flaw . 
brenner is investigating a crime that occurred in georgia . 
the rape occurred in west point , which is in new york . 
he is under a very tight ( and totally implausible ) 36-hour deadline to solve this case . 
he needs to discuss the rape with a psychiatrist at west point . 
does he phone the doctor ? 
no , he travels ( via some unexplained very fast transport ) to new york to question the psychiatrist in person , and then he returns to georgia ( again by the miracle transport ) , without once worrying about the impact any of this will have on his deadline . 
you have been warned , stay away from this one . 
 " it was not scary . " 
these are the first words that came to mind after it was over . 
when a movie is called _vampires_ , " not scary " aren't words that should be associated with it . 
but that wasn't my only gripe . 
john carpenter is a name associated with cutting-edge cinema , as in the intense scares of _halloween_ , _the thing_ and _the prince of darkness_ , or the offbeat action of _they live_ and _escape from new york_ . 
unfortunately , the only thing that is cutting edge about _vampires_ is the level of boredom the movie is able to reach . 
with an anemic plot and not-quite-kosher special effects , _john carpenter's vampires_ has barely enough substance to slake the thirst of even the least discerning genre fan . 
the film is at first concerned with a group of roaming vampire slayers , led by james woods , of all people . 
like some sort of holy a-team ( they even have their own souped-up van ) , the bunch invade and wipe out a nest of vampires in a new mexico shack . 
their method is amusingly innovative : the blood-suckers are reeled out with harpoons so they can flare up in the sun like matchsticks . 
to commemorate their victory , the loutish band decorates a motel room with hookers and parties the night away . 
their celebration is short-lived , however , as a master vampire named valek ambushes and single-handedly destroys most of the team . 
woods' jack crow and buddy montoya ( daniel baldwin ) escape with their lives , along with a woman named katrina ( sheryl lee ) . 
although the woman has been bitten , montoya and crow decide to keep katrina for her psychic link to the master vampire . 
the rest of the movie is concerned with the boys' hunt for valek ( thomas ian griffith ) , a freaky marilyn manson-type who's on a mission that dates back 600 years . 
along the way they pick up a priest named guiteau ( tim guinee ) , a character who serves pretty much the same purpose as the jittery cpl . 
upham in _saving private ryan_ . 
some stuff happens in the middle of the movie , but i can't remember most of it , because i often found a twitching hair in the corner of the frame more interesting than what was happening on screen . 
_vampires_ finally starts to pick up about 90 minutes into the mix , as crow , guiteau , and montoya assault an abandoned prison-turned vampire nest . 
only then does the film begin to even resemble a carpenter flick . 
but it's too little too late . 
we get the inevitable final confrontation , but it seems tacked on and rather anti-climactic ( come on , we're dealing with _the_ master vampire here ! ) 
interestingly , last summer's vampire actioner _blade_ was derived from a comic book , and _vampires_ from a novel , yet the latter seems more steeped in campy cheesiness than the former , a more deliberate superhero flick . 
woods' jack crow spouts glib off-the-cuff one-liners and strolls away from exploding buildings with that oh-so-cool stride . 
and his motive for killing vampires ? 
take a wild guess . 
 ( hint : a ______ killed his _____ when he was just a _____ . ) 
at least _blade_ had decent action and slick stylishness . 
_vampires_ lacks even cheap thrills to mask its gossamer-thin plot . 
to make up for this , the movie resorts to other " shocks , " such as its generally condescending attitude towards women ( crow slaps them around for the fun of it ) and an overplayed contempt for religion ( crow teases guiteau incessantly about whether his vow of celibacy has made him prone to " getting woodies . " ) 
it can be argued that maybe i wanted too much from this movie . 
if not scary and gory , i wanted tense , relentless , and exhausting . 
_john carpenter's vampires_ is none of these . 
i can only recommended it for the hardcore carpenter fan . 
for the rest of you looking for a good scare , beware : _vampires_ is a film with no teeth . 
perhaps best remembered as the recently departed news anchor on saturday night live who always started the segment with " . . . this is the fake news , " norm macdonald , at times , could elicit some laughter by blurting out semi-offensive phrases in his raspy voice , coated with a condescending attitude . 
his shtick was marked by crassness . 
in this movie , for example , when his girlfriend says that she's kicking him out because he's been fired from 14 different jobs over the last 3 months , he tries to calm the situation by saying , " maybe you'll feel better after we have some dirty sex . " 
this kind of humor can only go so far , but certainly can't go the distance in a full-length feature . 
 " dirty work " , is nothing more than a sophomoric comedy about two best friends who grow up only physically . 
emotionally , they've never outgrown their pubescent years , which is somewhat amusingly explored in a beginning flashback . 
although having no apparent real world skills , the one thing that these two have always been adept at is getting back at people . 
if the meter maid was unjust in giving you a ticket , then dump a bunch of unpopped kernels of corn onto the engine block and watch the car burst apart . 
mitch ( norm macdonald ) and sam ( artie lange ) need to come up with $50 , 000 in a period of two weeks so that sam's dad ( jack warden ) can have a heart operation . 
their idea is to start a revenge-for-hire business where they'll do your dirty work . 
in the funniest scene ( and possibly the only funny scene ) of the movie , they take advantage of a live television shoot at a nearby used car lot . 
their presence is established , but when a less-than-honorable real estate developer hires them and then reneges on the payment , the two go to work to exact their sordid brand of revenge . 
by default , dirty work should treat us to some outrageous revenge plots , but it delivers jerky boys level material . 
except for the bit at the used car lot ( and possibly another episode that involves frat brothers ) , the dirty work is uninspired and becomes about as funny as a prank phone call . 
already weak on material , it further spirals itself towards the video store by having jack warden constantly blurt out that he has an unsatisfied libido and needs 'broads' and also includes a very unfunny chevy chase as a bumbling doctor with a gambling addiction . 
but what's really painfully evident is that norm macdonald has no versatility as an actor . 
relying on his trademark of speaking into his personal recorder and saying " note to self " ( " note to self : learn to fight , " he says after getting beat up ; " note to self : there's always beer , " he says after hitting rock bottom ; etc . ) , we feel like we're just watching an elongated rehash of his not-so-glorious days on saturday night live . 
much like the television show , for 90 minutes we get one or two funny bits . 
the rest of the story is just dead space . 
summer movies are , by nature , dumb affairs that are usually made for some quick enjoyment and to make money . 
wild wild west , the latest will smith affair , follows much the same formula , except that it is dumber and less enjoying than most summer movies . 
will smith plays jim west , a black sheriff with a nice line in sunglasses . 
he is called by president grant ( kline ) to go on a mission to find out why top government scientists are disappearing . 
west is paired up with scientist artemus gordon ( kline again ) and the two track the missing scientists to a legless mastermind , named dr . loveless ( branagh , with a zany moustache . ) 
before i pile on with the many negatives in this sorry affair , i'll give it a chance with the positives . 
there's a nice credit sequence , the production design by bo welch is pleasing to the eye , and the special effects are decent enough . 
there's also a pleasant soundtrack . 
buried deep in the dross are one or two amusing jokes . 
and salma hayek pops up as the female interest , which is always nice to see . 
apart from these factors , though , nothing else in wild wild west works . 
firstly , there's little chemistry between smith and kline , who appears to be in it purely for the money . 
one would expect zingers passing between the two : none arise . 
both of them plod through the below standard plot , knowing that there is a pay cheque waiting at the end . 
not even kenneth branagh provides much entertainment : although he is over the top , the material doesn't present much opportunity for branagh to be truly crazy . 
therefore , he just comes across as loud as obnoxious . 
the only enjoyable performance comes from the sexy salma hayek , who is given so little screen time it's embarrassing . 
she appears to be in the film to merely show off her body , and be ogled at by kline and smith . 
her character also changes at a whim to fit the mechanics of the script , and there is no sense of realism about the character . 
the 'humour' in the film is also very off . 
will smith put a little spin to his daft lines in men in black , here , not even smith could save the humour on display . 
the script largely boils down to insults that aren't very funny , and one-liners that barely raise a smirk . 
it's also somewhat racist , although it doesn't intend to be , with one scene with jim west trying to wisecrack his way out of a lynching , and actually says slavery is good to save himself . 
it's not a funny scene , and the whole thing comes off rather uncomfortably . 
the film also makes the tragic mistake that a man ( in this case kline ) in a dress is automatically unfunny , it isn't , but the wild wild west makes this joke even more painful to watch through pure ineptness . 
there's also problems with the plot . 
jim west and artemus gordon get caught up in all kinds of sticky situations , but the way they get out of them are always unsatisfying , and rely purely on luck , rather than audience pleasing skill . 
plot elements are introduced into the film , and then thrown away just as quickly . 
the main piece of the story , a 80 foot mechanical , steam driven spider devised by loveless looks rather impressive , but there's no particular reason why it should be built . 
why not loveless build a great big tank , instead of an ungainly , fragile piece of machinery that's just begging to be blown up ? 
director barry sonnenfeld always has a breezy look to them , with some nice camera tricks , but even this is missing from this stilted affair . 
wild wild west could have benefited from sonnenfelds whacked out style of directing , but not much of it is evident , making this film drag out even more . 
it's a sad thing when _four_ ( credited ) screenwriters , a talented director and a willing star can't make a film work , and eventually wild wild west collapses under it's sexist , mildly racist , unfunny weight . 
what were they thinking ? 
nostalgia for the seventies is bad enough , but do we really need an eighties film ? 
robbie hart ( adam sandler ) used to want to be a rock and roll star , but in 1985 he's singing at weddings and having a good time . 
a romantic at heart , he loves weddings and is just about to get married to his high-school sweetie . 
when she leaves him waiting at the altar , his tune changes to " love stinks " . 
he meets waitress julia ( drew barrymore ) who is engaged to a junk-bonds salesman and you know that they are going to get together . 
in fact you know everything that is going to happen during this movie . 
sandler is somewhat adequate in his leading man role , but there is no spark . 
barrymore doesn't seem to be able to convey anything other than a pretty face with nothing behind it : beauty but no attitude . 
both characters are just there . 
bit parts by steve buscemi and jon lovitz steal the show . 
the eighties are shoved in our face . 
references to deloreans , madonna , " dallas " , ivana and donald , burt and loni and " miami vice " get old fast . 
the filmmakers must have realized that there wasn't much entertainment to the story and thought they could dazzle the audience with humorous period allusions . 
they're not funny and it doesn't work . 
with change on all fronts accelerating more and more , nostalgia appears to have a great appeal , but don't you think we could have more than 14 years before we yearn for the past . 
maybe we can look forward to a film next year waxing nostalgically about el nino . 
 ( michael redman has written this column for over 23 years and he knows that nostalgia is not what it used to be . ) 
and just when you thought joblo was getting a little soft around the corners , not rating anything lower than your standard " this movie sucks " , along comes this cinematic atrocity and he's forced to take out his secret weapon and spray it with a stench so thick , even the bravest movie-goer would think twice about seeing this waste of time . 
yes , despite being a third sequel to a successful original movie , the latest highlander doesn't seem to have anything going for it . 
oh stinky movie , let me count thee ways . . . 
plot : ( from what i understood ) a really bad highlander dude comes to the present looking to whack out the nice highlander dudes in order to gain their power and become the mightiest immortal . . . or 
something along those lines . 
critique : a complete and utter mess . 
disjointed , incoherent , boring , corny , filled with bad dialogue . . . and 
that's just the first thirty minutes ! 
this film doesn't seem to know what to do with itself . 
it's confusing to anyone who doesn't know the series ( i include myself in that group ) and apparently idiotic to those who do know the series ( i include die-hard highlander fan the arrow in that group ) . 
the film doesn't explain anything about itself . . . it 
just goes from one inexplicable situation to another . 
one moment they're in the present time , the next moment , they're in italy in the 1600s . 
why ? 
who knows . 
what are they talking about ? 
no idea . 
flashbacks mixed in with the present , mixed in with a few spontaneously cheesy fight sequences every now and again , and i even remember seeing one flashback scene which went even further into its own flashback scene ! ! 
hullo . . . ? ! ? 
confused yet ? 
i was and i basically stopped giving a crap about anyone in the film when i realized that neither the writer or director was interested in presenting me with any kind of semblance of a story . 
random swordplay , mad max-like dudes showing up in motorcycles in the 1800s ? 
or were they in the present at that time ? 
who knows . . . and to be honest . . . who 
seriously cares ! 
this series should have been shot in the head and put out of its own misery a long time ago , but sadly , someone at the studio decided that it still had a little life left in it . 
please , please . . . for the love of god and all that is holy in the world of movie-making , and mostly out of respect for those who loved the original film , put this series to bed and end it ! 
even christopher lambert knew enough to play second fiddle to adrian paul in this one . 
the director also tries to do the best he can with the muddled material , but all he could come up with is plenty of slo-mo action , some fast-motion fight scenes and lots of smoke everywhere . 
and is there anything spectacular about the sword-play or fight scenes ? 
nope . 
and i think we all could have done without all those zooming lambert face close-ups . . . yipes , 
the man is not aging gracefully , is he ? 
oh boy , and i haven't even gotten around to the greatest piece of over-acting that i've seen in years . 
the man who plays kell in this movie , bruce payne , should get a ham trophy for literally chewing up every piece of scenery that he gets near . 
overacting is not a hobby for this guy . . . it's 
a living ! 
he's also very funny , not purposely though . 
all in all , the movie stinks . 
nuff said . 
`bats' is an insulting slap across the face for any dedicated horror movie fan . 
to pull something like this off , you need to have a sense of wit and style , with a heavy dosage of humor to back up the process if the fright factor ever declines . 
something like the underground worm thriller `tremors' had just the perfect mixture of these elements , and in return , the film was tremendous fun . 
with the notable exception of a wisecracking supporting player , `bats' mainly plays it's premise for straight-arrow horror . 
judging by the ridiculous premise , this was not exactly a wise move . 
the movie attempts to capture the essence of alfred hitchcock's `the birds' , but fails miserably . 
done right , it could have been adequately amusing halloween cinema . 
unfortunately , `bats' is a prime example of a formula movie done terribly , terribly wrong . 
the only thing amusing about this festering pile of guano is in how intelligible the filmmakers anticipate their core audience to be . 
i will recite the following paragraph in a manner that will reach the audience of individuals to whom `bats' is aimed toward . 
those guys in hollywood have made a movie about bats . 
these bats are not very nice , because they eat a lot of people . 
boy , are these bats ugly . 
they are infected with this bogus virus that makes them super-duper smart . 
they've got big claws and red eyes and they are not very friendly at all . 
a whole bunch of people in texas get killed , so a sheriff guy and a scientist lady are brought in to kill the bats . 
they have big guns and other cool things to fight them with , but the bats are pretty smart , so it's sorta hard to do . 
the bats swoop down and they shoot at them to make they go away for good . 
but no , `bats' is probably too violent for pre-schoolers . 
the film , directed by louis morneau , should have ventured straight into video stores . 
on the small screen , perhaps more fun could have been derived with lower expectations . 
but sitting through this crapper on the big screen is almost awkward ; although at a few moments it becomes a guilty pleasure , the film is poorly written , poorly acted and executed with glaring ineptitude . 
even the bats themselves are cheesy , and the attack sequences too rushed and jittery to be properly enjoyed . 
the sheriff in the story is emmett kimsey ( lou diamond phillips ) , who embodies every pathetic stereotype a small-town authority figure usually portrays ( he chomps on a cigar , struts contentedly in his boots , etc . . . ) . 
the scientist is dr . sheila casper ( dina meyer ) , who specializes in flying mammals and is classified as `the best in her field' . 
meyer uses a lot of technical terms designed to make the movie seem more intellectually capable , but everything about dr . casper is recycled beyond recognition . 
her memories of how she became hooked on the topic of bats sounds suspiciously like oceanographic student matt hooper's tale of how he became infatuated with sharks in `jaws' . 
everything revolving around `bats' is tired drivel , which desperately requires some directorial style or acting capabilities to spruce it up . 
the supporting cast could have been constructed out of straw , with voices dubbed in later . 
in fact , that may have worked out better in the end . 
take one glance at casper's bat-loathing sidekick jimmy ( leon ) , and you'll have immediate deja vu - he's the exact same humorous buddy caricature from every other movie , constructed specifically for timed comic relief . 
unfortunately , none of his comic interludes are funny . 
in the role of deranged mad scientist dr . mccabe , the reliable bob gunton gets cornered with the most hideously idiotic character in the bunch . 
mccabe `accidentally' released two experimental test subjects , and the virus spread to other bats . 
the entire town of gallup , texas is under attack from an enormous swarm of the creatures , but gunton appears to be inconspicuously contemplating something else . 
something like : `when is the damn movie going to be over ? ? 
i just want my money . ' 
the bats are ugly , i must say . 
there's the occasional moment where they look moderately convincing , but mainly , the swarm is represented in cheesy digital imagery . 
only bits of the bloody action even hint at the campy fun the film could have been , but by the absurdly stupid climax , it's way too late in the game for a decent recovery . 
characters experiment in slaughtering the bats with gunfire . 
let's explore the logic there : is this really a very efficient way to decrease the bat population ? ? 
you could empty an entire clip at the flying winged serpents and not even wound one , and after that there are only 18 , 000 more of them . 
this kind of behavior represents the regular level of intelligence behind `bats' . 
the most interesting part of " can't hardly wait " just happens to be not only the most human , but for many of us , the one part that many of us can easily relate to . 
that is the character of denise ( lauren ambrose ) , the film's sole sarcastic member who mocks everything that goes on in the film , and at one point sits down on a couch and looks totally bored . 
the film wisely holds over this moment , nicely showing her alienation in the midst of a large high school party . . . almost 
too nicely . 
for some members of the audience ( read : me ) , this is basically a mirror of what's going on with them watching this film . 
we sit there wondering why we've even bothered to see a film about a long high school party we probably never felt the desire to go to in the first place . 
i would actually highly recommend this film if it satirized all of this . 
after all , this film is filled with a bunch of pathetic stereotypes much of which i went to high school with . 
everyone's here : the jock , the homecoming queen , the nerd ( and his dominions of trekkies and x-philes ) , the alienated wannabe writer , the school spirit girl , the pothead ( s ) , the wigger , etc , etc , etc , and weirdly enough this film shows them as superficial , lame , and basically as a bunch of losers . 
except for denise , who rolls her eyes at everything , and easily becomes the most likable character even before she speaks ( her yearbook entry , something which is done for each main character , quotes oscar wilde - definite pointers there ) . 
unfortunately , the writers and directors take several major misteps on the way to making this into an admirable and even likable film . 
the film , as i said , portrays most of its characters as superficial and just totally ignorant to everything . 
however , instead of sticking with this , perhaps even going a bit further with it , they let this lie , and actually make these characters into our heroes . 
we follow several of them , all a bunch of moronic stereotypes with only a shread of humanity and realism , and tries to tell boring and overly melodramatic tales about them as if we actually cared and/or identified with them . 
and if we did , we certainly don't want to revisit that state of being . 
here's a quick low-down : it's graduation , and we follow a bunch of seniors on the last night , otherwise known as the " american grafitti " or , to a lesser extent , the " dazed and confused " cliche . 
the formal just followed them as they drove aimlessly ; the latter did a little bit of that and featured a big outdoor keg party . 
 " can't hardly wait " just opts for a big indoor keg party , and a little bit of aimless driving , albeit of the i'm-whining-because-i-can't-get-a-girl-i-want brand . 
we follow many people around , but mostly we trail preston ( ethan embry , of " that thing you do ! " ) , the alienated writer , who's been pining over the homcoming queen , amanda ( the totally overrated jennifer love hewitt ) , for the entirety of high school because he thinks they shared a moment their freshman year over a freaking pop tart . 
now that she's broken up with her football player boyfriend , mike ( peter facinelli ) , he decides to go to the party with a note he's written declaring his " love " for her in the hopes he'll build up the guts to give it to her . . . even 
though he's leaving for a multi-week intensive writing program hosted by none other than kurt vonnegut ( okay : the ingenius vonnegut or some icky noxema spokesperson ? ) . 
since that plot is incredibly lame and a track record of what goes on with it wouldn't be able to carry a commercial let alone a feature film , and because it's a party , there are some more main characters , such as : william ( charlie korsmo , finally surfacing after " dick tracy " ) , the nerd ( and his dominions ) who has come up with a ridiculous plan to publically sabotage mike , who's humiliated him for years , but gets too caught up in drinking to do it ; kenny ( seth green ) , the wigger , who has decided that this party will be where he will finally get laid ( uh huh ) ; and denise , the only exceptional character , who unfortunately gets stuck in a bathroom ( don't ask ) with kenny where the two characters let down their characters and are allowed to follow the laws of plot cliches from point a to point b with nary a bit of characterization involved after awhile . 
ugh . 
the main comparison this film is getting to another film is actually not " american grafitti " or " dazed and confused , " two films that embraced and ultimately made humans out of many of its high schoolers ( not to mention were extremely entertaining ) , but to john hughes films of the 80s , most notably " sixteen candles . " 
the big difference in the two is that that film managed to not only embrace but even satirize its main characters , and did so equally and in an entertaining fashion . 
this film forgets to satirize its characters , and ultimately tells a story about a bunch of uninteresting stereotypes . . . and 
then says that it's all okay . 
we can't take this film seriously , nor can we take this as fun , so really what good is it ? 
but i will tell you some things i did like : i liked the direction , except for a couple too-over-the-top features , like way-too-glossy jump cuts ( it's like an oxymoron ) and other obscurities . 
generally , though , elfont and kaplan do have graceful camera movement , and even manage to capture an altman-esque feel to their film from time to time ( a thing with a note , though , is too hokey to really be admirable ) . 
i actually did like seth green , for once in about a decade ( when he played a very young woody allen in " radio days " ) - his desintegration of his wigger character was almost believable . . . almost . 
and , of course , lauren ambrose is wonderful as denise , the one character we could have used some more of , even though it would have changed the entirety of the film . 
however , the character of denise really doesn't work with the film , when really thought about . 
she's far too witty and realized ( at least for the first half ) to belong in this film , and whenever she appears , she automatically gives everything a delightfully satirical tone . 
she's not just the cynic or the intellectual ; she's just a very interesting character who provides entertainment even if it further damages other already damaged characters . 
she may ruin the film more , but at least when she's on screen we can sit up and think to ourselves " well , at least we'll be entertained . " 
a couple other things that just don't work : mike's character , who suffers an epiphany throughout the film but in the end acts as though he has forgotten everything : too much the sacrificial lamb for the film in general ; the aimless , bitchy driving by preston to try and get over his inability to shack up with amanda - give me a break ; and perhaps the one thing that just doesn't work at all : jenna eflman's uncredited cameo as an angel - just didn't work , but nice try . 
basically the worst thing about this film , the real reason i'm giving this such a low rating , is because it refuses to give us any fully realized characters and then insists we follow around complete stereotypes from other movies doing things that are inane and unlike anything we'd do . 
we don't feel for these characters because for most of us , we aren't stereotypes going through the motions to worn subplots . 
the acid test for high school movies is : does it at all capture the feel of what it's portraying ? 
the answer for this film is no . 
nice try , though . 
the film may be called mercury rising , but that title doesn't describe the trajectory taken by this motion picture , a routine thriller that combines government cover-ups with a cloying and poorly-motivated buddy story . 
the " hook " that is supposed to make mercury rising unique is that the young protagonist is autistic . 
however , aside from giving actor miko hughes a chance to win raves for his performance , this particular aspect of the film comes across as nothing more than a convenient plot device . 
those expecting to see even a semi-thorough exploration of the condition will be disappointed . 
mercury rising treats autism with the same degree of efficiency that many action thrillers accord to alcoholism . 
the script for mercury rising is exceptionally tiresome and hard- to-swallow . 
i don't know whether the problem is in the original book , simple simon , or in the screenplay adaptation , but this movie easily exceeds the intangible threshold beyond which a suspension of disbelief is no longer possible . 
once again , certain standby plot elements -- the high-level government conspiracy and the maverick law enforcement agent -- are recycled , and not to good effect . 
while bruce willis can play the action hero as well as anyone in hollywood , this particular outing leaves him marooned in situations that are characterized by too little tension and too much nonsense . 
the story begins with a formulaic sequence in which the tough fbi agent with a heart of gold , art jeffries ( bruce willis ) , is confronted with his own failure . 
unable to resolve a hostage crisis in time , he is forced to observe as two teenagers are shot to death . 
the event weighs heavily on his conscience and heavy-handedly establishes his motivation for protecting 9-year old simon lynch ( miko hughes ) when he discovers the autistic child hiding in a closet after his parents have been gunned down by the evil hit man who looks like an ex-football player . 
soon , art and simon are on the run from seemingly everyone -- fleeing for their lives and bonding at the same time , with the evil hit man who looks like an ex-football player always just a step behind them . 
along the way , they are helped by the best friend who defies orders to help out his buddy ( chi mcbride ) and the supporting female who may or may not become a love interest ( kim dickens ) . 
why is simon in danger and why were his parents turned into swiss cheese by the evil hit man who looks like an ex-football player ? 
apparently , the government has spent millions of dollars developing an ultra-secret code called " mercury . " 
to make sure it can't be cracked , they do the most intuitive thing possible : place a sample of it in a " nerds' puzzle magazine . " 
of course , no one can solve it -- no one except autistic simon , that is . 
when he calls the phone number listed in the solution , he gets the nsa . 
as a result , the cold-hearted , sneering government man ( alec baldwin ) decides that simon has to be eliminated -- for the good of the country , of course . 
but he hasn't counted on the tough fbi agent with a heart of gold , even though everyone in the audience has . 
it's hard to get worked up about a routine thriller that doesn't do anything exceptionally well , and does quite a few things rather poorly . 
for those who are desperate to find elements of this movie to like , mercury rising manages to manufacture tension from time-to-time , but even the most exciting scenes ( such as the one where art and simon are crouched down , avoiding passing trains ) aren't that pulse-pounding . 
the climactic struggle is a real ho-hum affair which leads to a finale that is painful in its obviousness . 
overall , director harold becker is constantly struggling ( and failing ) to generate even a moment that isn't derivative or obligatory . 
bruce willis' star seems to be fading . 
this is his fourth straight lackluster outing , following last man standing , the fifth element , and the jackal . 
willis isn't terrible , but this is the kind of role he can sleepwalk through , and often does . 
alec baldwin , combining elements of his characters from glengarry glenn ross and malice , does some scenery- chewing , but his performance is surprisingly lacking in menace . 
the film's real star is young miko hughes ( heather langenkamp's son in wes craven's new nightmare ) , who does as good a job as dustin hoffman playing an autistic individual , but is about 50 years younger . 
mercury rising joins the likes of hard rain , the replacement killers , and u . s . marshals on the heap of pallid 1998 thrillers . 
for those who like action and adventure in the theater , this has not been a good year . 
hopefully , the advent of summer will change that . 
until then , the best choices ( for bruce willis or any other action hero ) are on video . 
and , if you're determined to see mercury rising , check out the morning sky in early may . 
 " alcohol and drugs = bad . 
not alcohol and drugs = good . 
got it ? " 
just when you though you've seen enough of brave young women dealing with their personal problems on screen , be that insanity or alcoholism , hollywood releases yet another one of those 'deep , emotional stories about finding yourself' . . 
'28 days' is practically a visualization of the usual 'meaningful' true stories that people are so proudly retelling at aa-meetings . 
gwennie ( sandra bullock ) is a young woman who drowned her problems in alcohol . 
for her life was a big party , with no beginning and no end . 
this behavior has of course estranged her from her only sister and from life itself . 
her existence is filled with endless parties and comic episodes . 
such as when she got drunk with boyfriend jasper ( dominic west ) , borrowed her sister's ( elizabeth perkins ) wedding limo and crashed it into someone's house . 
this time she had to pay with a 28 day stay in court-ordered rehab . 
here she must realize that the only thing that can save her is her is redemption , willpower and commitment . 
most important she must realize her place and direction in life and understand that her life is not just a big party . 
the film itself feels like a rehab program , whining and moaning about things that have been said and written a million times . 
it is a classic cautionary tale . 
an echo . 
a big , fat and expensive clich ? . 
a shadow of last year's 'girl , interrupted' , which likewise followed in the footsteps of great masterpieces like 'the cuckoo's nest' and 'trainspotting' . 
director betty thomas has stuffed her film with so many failures and errors , that it is impossible to sum them all up in one review . 
for some paranoid reason she decided to make her film a drama/comedy . 
jokes and funny characters almost deliberately delude you from the really important and complex issues : alienation , despair , terror , confusion , loneliness . 
and what awesome power and strength of character it actually takes to overcome all that and become clean . 
isn't that what the filmmakers wanted to show in the first place ? 
even the transition process itself seems like a walk in the park . betty thomas' idea of hell is a cozy , homey place where happy alcoholics and cheerful drug addicts are not allowed to smoke , drink or watch tv after 11 . 
it is simply too light , simplified and unnecessary sweet to be taken seriously . 
but the worst thing about it is that it actually thinks that it is saying something of significance . 
that it actually tries to educate the audience with its extremely predictable and primitive story . 
 " all you need to do is just say no " , says dr . cornell ( steve buscemi ) as if was the revelation of the century . 
and that's how simple it is ! 
in fact i would rather watch 'lost in space' once again , than return to '28 days' . 
as for acting , it's acceptable , but hardly anything else . 
for sandra bullock it's an opportunity to demonstrate that she is capable of more than 'speed' . 
she handles her part with a surprising professionalism and ease that certainly saves the film from being a complete flop . 
dominic west shines as the source of gwenie's devilish temptations , but elizabeth perkins' and steve buscemi's great talents are wasted on unnoticeable and shallow characters . 
although intellectually 'girl , interrupted' was a greater achievement , '28 days' is superior in its visual aspect . 
there are some nice flash back sequences and occasionally impressive pacing , but the overall technical aspect of this film is on the ground floor . 
the most important thing is that we've seen it before and it was a lot better . 
'clean and sober' , 'only when i laugh' , 'when a man loves a woman' , 'leaving las vegas' and many other stronger films were made about the same issues . 
so what's the point ? 
in other words '28 days' doesn't contribute to the moviemaking business on any level . 
if you're caught in a snowstorm or bolts of lightning fall from the sky and you're standing in front of the movie theatre , you might as well go in and watch '28 days' . 
under all other circumstances stay away , because this film equals $8 and 103 minutes lost . 
capsule : combine one quart of raiders of the lost ark , a dash of a jackie chan movie ( sans jackie ) , two teaspoons of gun- and swordplay , and a dollop of cgi . 
simmer for 100 minutes . 
yields : zilch . 
the phantom is a depressing and tired retread of so many earlier , better movies that after the fifteen-minute mark i started cataloguing them out loud . 
it's hard to make a good action-adventure movie that doesn't simply recycle its predecessors , and i've seen movies that even at least did the recycling gracefully . 
the phantom , allegedly based on the long-running comic of the same name , doesn't even bother to be graceful . 
it's a stupid and incompetent movie in too many ways to list , but i'll try . 
the film opens up with a " prelude " sequence that looks like it was slashed to ribbons in the editing and then given a heavy voice-over to compensate for whatever got thrown out . 
we go from there to a jungle sequence that , i swear to god , recycles the truck-chase scene from raiders of the lost ark note-for-note , possibly even shot-for-shot , right down to the moment where indy wrenched open the door and slung one of the drivers out into the brush -- and then goes on to rip off the rope-bridge scene from " sorcerer " as well ! 
sorcerer , as you may well remember , was a remake of a french movie , the wages of fear , in which a bunch of lowlifes were paid piles of money to drive a truck loaded with nitro through horrible jungle terrain . 
both versions of that movie were far more interesting than this flick , but i've got my job to do , so back to the salt mines we go . 
anyway , the cinematic theft doesn't stop there . 
or at least the lack of inspiration . 
there isn't a single thing here we haven't seen , and it's not given to us in a way that remotely evokes our interest . 
we have ( where's my list ? ) 
a bad girl , a tough good girl , a secret cave hideaway ( which seems inspired more by dr . 
no than anything else ) , a boardroom meeting that drips with greed and venality , magical artifacts of terrible power , and cary-hiroyuki tagawa wasted in another stupid role where he gets to wear a fu manchu mustache and sneer a lot and generally humiliate himself . 
what else is there ? 
the plot is a waste of time . 
the sets alternate between big but hokey -- and tiny and still hokey . 
there are lines in the script that are just begging to be mst3ked -- and i'm sure once mike and the 'bots get the cash , they'll stick it on their sked . 
the only thing in the movie worth noting is billy zane -- he's a good actor , and he tries very hard , even when the script is sending him down one dead alley of a scene after another . 
all i can say is that i pray this isn't the beginning of the end for him -- although it sure looks like the final nail in the coffin for the comic-book super-hero movie . 
a new entry in the " revisionist history " genre of filmmaking , dick suggests that two not-too-bright teenage girls are the cause of the uncovering of the nation's biggest presidential scandal . 
kirsten dunst and michelle williams star betsy and arlene , who while trying to deliver a fan letter from arlene's watergate hotel room , accidentally stumble across g . gordon liddy ( played dead-on by harry shearer ) and the infamous break-in . 
when they recognize liddy later on during a white house field trip , they are ushered into a conference room , questioned as to what they know , and leave as official presidential dog walkers . 
the girls manage to unwittingly uncover every bit of the watergate scandal while performing their duties , but have no clue as to what they are getting involved with . 
when they discover that nixon ( another dead-on performance by dan hedaya , who actually favors nixon slightly , unlike anthony hopkins ) has been abusive to checkers , the presidential dog , thanks to the conversations that he always recorded , they quit and become disillusioned . 
during a prank phone call the girls make to woodward and bernstein , events are set into motion that eventually lead to the president's resignation . 
this film starts off promisingly with an aged woodward and bernstein arguing with each other on an obvious larry king-type talk show ( featuring a cameo by french stewart ) about revealing the identity of " deep throat " . 
from there , we are subjected to bodily function humor and just about every bad " dick " joke one can derive from this type of supposed comedy . 
at one point , the girls are having to scream over a high school band playing on the steps of the lincoln memorial . 
the band manages to stop right as dunst screams " you have to stop letting dick run your life ! " 
much to the horror of everyone standing within earshot . 
several other variations on this wordplay surface all throughout the film . 
if this movie had been smarter i would have been less likely to fault it's juvenile bathroom humor , but it's not . 
the film was apparently made for relatively younger people because every major player in the watergate scandal is introduced and shoved down the audience's throat in the least subtle way possible . 
i don't recall oliver stone's nixon having to pander to it's audience , but of course that film wasn't a comedy aimed squarely at a 13-20 year-old film going audience . 
the only redeeming thing about this movie is it's remarkable supporting cast . 
i wanted to see more of ferrell and mcculloch's woodward and bernstein . 
those two characters are the sole basis for my rating . 
i wish they had been given more screen time , but unfortunately , they are only relegated to the final half-hour . 
their constant bickering and fighting over trying to get the story are a major highlight , especially mcculloch's constant thwarting of ferrell's attempts to gather information from the girls ( who , in the course of the narrative are revealed as deep throat , so named thanks to an ill planned trip to a porno theater by betsy's brother ) . 
the other members of the cast are excellent in their portrayals of their particular characters , but are given nothing to work with . 
i'd like to see the same cast portray these characters in a script more suited towards their comedic abilities . 
as for the two leads , dunst and williams can definitely do better . 
they come off as what could best be described as romy and michele : the early years in this particular film , a highly dubious distinction at best . 
stay through the first half of the end credits though , to see an interesting scene involving dunst and williams suggestively sucking on lollipops emblazoned with the title of the movie . 
an excellent idea marred by poor execution , dick could have been a great movie . 
less of the juvenile humor and more of the smarter comedy displayed by the woodward and bernstein scenes , could have made this film a wonderful satire of the nixon presidency as seen through the eyes of two naive fifteen year olds . 
as it stands though , dick offers nothing but what filmmaker kevin smith so accurately defines as " dick and poopie " jokes . 
and that , to me , does not make a funny movie . 
[pg-13] 
words i thought i'd never write : the sequel to urban legend lacks the grace , wit , and power of the original . 
put the gun to my head , pull the trigger , and put me out of my misery . 
better yet , put the horror genre out of its misery . 
when you've finished watching urban legends : final cut , you'll share my same grim point of view thanks to the horrible acting , terrible script , and ridiculous directing which has become all too common today . 
urban legends : final cut is a smorgasbord of stolen movie ideas ( mainly from the blair witch project and scream ) : fabulous people with perfect teeth and skin , one creepy film school , and a dog eating a freshly removed kidney from one of the movie's hapless victims . 
urban legends delivers a story about a bunch of film students working on their thesis films to win the coveted " hitchcock award " which guarantees the winner a director deal in hollywood . 
one female filmmaker ( jennifer morrison , the freaky dead girl from stir of echoes ) writes a fiction script based on a serial killer who kills his victims according to " urban legend " tales . 
suddenly , her entire crew starts getting bumped off with urban-legendary homicides , but the bodies are always missing and she is often the only witness to the killings . 
the killer wears a fencing mask and a long black overcoat , looking like a scorned olympian out to avenge his defeat in sydney . 
why this is scary is never explained . 
of course , the golden rule of sequels is that there must be least one recurring character for continuity's sake . 
urban legends has one minor , recurring character from the original who we never cared about anyway ( the security guard , of all people ) . 
the other central problem is that this character has already seen the urban legend killings once before , but she's utterly clueless about what's going on around her . 
call it suspension of disbelief . 
this film is also a prime example of how horror films are now completely dead in the water . 
the last decent horror film was the blair witch project , and that seemed more like a snuff film than fiction . 
the stalking killer with crazy motivation has become a tired clich ? , as everyone seems to have forgotten : real horror is not about what is seen but about what is unknown . 
godzilla is the ultimate culmination of the " who cares about plot " summer movie . 
a loose remake of the 1954 " classic " japanese monster movie , godzilla , king of the monsters ( which is itself pretty thin in the story department ) , roland emmerich and dean devlin's big-budget lizard-stomps-manhattan disaster flick has been written with the brain dead in mind . 
the script isn't just " dumbed down , " it's lobotomized . 
godzilla lives and dies on special effects alone . 
presumably , the primary target group for this film is teenage boys , the demographic most likely to shell out $7 repeatedly to see the same images of monster-instigated carnage . 
that's not to say that females and other age groups are immune to the special effects seduction ; they're just not as readily susceptible . 
this is the third straight movie in a row where emmerich and devlin have demonstrated that a mastery of computer-generated visuals is far more important for making money than the ability to write and direct for actors . 
stargate was a financial success . 
independence day was a runaway hit . 
and , with godzilla already drowning in hype and merchandising tie-ins before it even opens , it's virtually guaranteed at least $100 million . 
nice numbers for a film that could have been penned by a not-too-precocious grade school kid . 
godzilla isn't completely without merit , although it is close . 
there's a certain visceral thrill inherent in watching the giant lizard rip his way through manhattan , but it wears off quickly . 
frankly , while the special effects are competent , they're not all that stunning . 
there's nothing new here ; it's jurassic park meets aliens , with a little independence day thrown in for bad measure . 
maybe it will require george lucas and his new star wars movie to take computer-generated visuals to the next level . 
godzilla never really pushes the envelope , preferring to remain within a comfort zone . 
the imagination of monster movies like king kong has been replaced by a crass , formulaic approach which disallows creativity . 
 ( how disturbing is it to know that godzilla has been chosen to close the 51st cannes film festival ? ) 
worst of all , godzilla isn't even exciting . 
with the possible exception of a mildly enjoyable car chase near the end , there isn't a sequence in this film that raises the pulse . 
even the scenes with dozens of aircraft attacking the monster are so devoid of tension and suspense that they are yawn-provoking . 
independence day may have been dumb , but it was full of " adrenaline moments " capable of getting the audience involved in the action . 
in this aspect of its production , as in so many others , godzilla is lacking . 
actually , part of the problem is that we're never sure who we're supposed to be rooting for : the green monster with an attitude or the paper-thin humans trying to stop him . 
the plot , such as it is , can be summed up rather simply . 
after sinking a few ships and leaving some footprints on tropical islands , godzilla shows up in the big apple . 
he does some of the usual tourist things : stops by madison square garden , visits the chrysler building , goes on a walk through central park , and takes the subway . 
in the process , he knocks over a few buildings and steps on countless cabs , but he never has trouble with traffic jams . 
on hand to stop him is an elite u . s . army unit , led by a slightly less-arrogant-than-usual military man ( kevin dunn ) and a biologist named nick tatopoulos , who has a theory about godzilla . 
in his opinion , the big guy is actually a lizard grown to enormous proportions as a result of the radiation given off by french atomic bomb tests in the south pacific . 
in nick's words , godzilla is " a mutated aberration ? an incipient creature ? the first of its kind . " 
as luck would have it , nick's old girlfriend , audrey ( maria pitillo ) , is a reporter based at a new york tv station . 
along with her cameraman friend , animal ( hank azaria ) , she decides to follow nick around as he trails godzilla . 
then , just when the military has rejected nick's theory about why godzilla is in new york , a member of the french secret service ( jean reno ) recruits him for a special assignment . 
instead of stomping around tokyo this time , godzilla has chosen new york city . 
unfortunately , manhattan has been destroyed so many times in recent disaster movies ( independence day , deep impact , armageddon ) that it's becoming boring . 
the whole tradition of monsters roaming around the city started with king kong , but the big ape was only about 30 feet tall . 
he could climb the empire state building . 
at ten times that height , godzilla would be more likely to knock it over . 
godzilla contains a few lame attempts at humor . 
there's an ongoing feud between animal and his wife that plays like sit-com material , an unfunny and repetitive gag about how no one can pronounce nick's last name properly , and a rather tame attack on film critics roger ebert and gene siskel . 
both of the popular personalities have alter egos in the film : " ebert , " the mayor of new york , is played by michael lerner , and " gene " ( lorry goldman ) is his campaign manager . 
ebert's re-election slogan is , not surprisingly , " thumbs up for new york . " 
the siskel/ebert stuff is amusing the first time it's used , but , after a while , it grows tiresome . 
and , although the " characters " don't serve any real purpose , they keep popping up . 
godzilla is saddled with an unimpressive cast . 
this is largely because emmerich doesn't want to risk a human performance upstaging his lizard . 
that's not to say that matthew broderick and jean reno aren't capable of good performances ( both have done their share of solid acting in the past ) , but they aren't a-list names . 
then again , considering the quality of the writing , even pacino and deniro would have been hard- pressed to shine . 
maria pitillo ( dear god ) plays the love interest and hank azaria ( great expectations ) is on hand to present what is supposed to be comic relief . 
ultimately , it doesn't really matter what i ( or any other critic , for that matter ) have to say about the movie . 
tristar has assumed that godzilla , like all self-proclaimed summer event motion pictures , is pretty much critic-proof . 
it may also be word-of-mouth-proof . 
those who want to see the movie will see it no matter what i write or their friends say . 
so , when i go on record to assert that godzilla is one of the most idiotic blockbuster movies of all time , it's like spitting into the wind . 
emmerich and devlin are master illusionists , waving their wands and mesmerizing audiences with their smoke and mirrors . 
it's probably too much to hope that some day , movie-goers will wake up and realize that they've been had . 
recently one night a young director named baz luhrmann couldn't sleep . 
he tumbled out of bed and moved over to the television where he watched mtv for an hour . 
then he moved to his kitchen where he spent the same amount of time eating spoiled food . 
then he took down a volume of shakespeare's work and read it cover to cover - never really paying attention to the words or plot . 
and then , as a climax , he took out his video camera and pressed the " on " button . 
the result ? 
william shakespeare's romeo + juliet - the worst film ever made and a complete failure . 
though , to be fair , an interesting complete failure . 
the idea at the film's core is to make shakespeare appealing to the crowds . 
this is done by moving the camera around at a rapid rate so that we can't see what is going on . 
and filming the dialogue in voice over . 
and shooting leonardo dicaprio like a calvin klein model . 
and making the frame go still while flashing the character's name at the bottom . 
and filming long tedious action sequences in slow motion . 
i mean , man , this is the 90s , dude . 
however i've seen terrible films that are fun to watch . 
 ( examples are batman and robin and the island of doctor moreau . 
 ) that rule doesn't apply here . 
this is a film that takes itself seriously . 
that is it's major fault . 
another problem was pointed out by my friend , alex ( who was singing songs by leonard bernstein throughout . 
 ) ; the original play is a powerful piece of work because the author remained neutral and didn't take sides . 
here it's clear that we are supposed to side with romeo . 
 ( just look at the way they film him . 
 ) from the begining he's our hero and this doesn't work . 
and dicaprio's awful performance doesn't help . 
luhrmann never decides if he wants to entertain us or enlighten us . 
the result is a mess . 
you can feel him striving to be something he isn't . 
he tries to pull of a mix in which drag queens are filmed from purposefully arty angles . 
he tries very hard . 
key word : tries . 
 " oh look , he's filming above water action from below . 
pretty . 
what does it represent ? " 
why do people do ugly things ? 
i scrambled away from my tv set feeling guilty as if i could never read the play again and keep a straight face . 
in times of crisis people are driven to desperate measures . 
of course what constitutes a crisis differs from person to person . 
what may be a disastrous situation for one , may be seen as a challenge to another . 
as deepak chopra is known to say , " it's not the ride , it's the rider . " 
unfortunately clear-thinking is not always the reaction to problems . 
wall street wheeler dealer steven taylor ( michael douglas ) is a man with troubles . 
he's sunk his money in illegal financial activities and it's blown up in his face . 
in a matter of days he will lose it all . 
his wife emily ( gwyneth paltrow ) is a highly-placed un interpreter and is not happy with her life either . 
her marriage is cold and unfulfilling . 
unknown to her , her new lover david shaw ( viggo mortensen ) is not only a painter , but an ex-con with a history of bilking wealthy women of their money . 
emily is a prime target : she's worth over $100 million . 
steven's solution to his predicament is to offer david half a million to kill his wife . 
the artist accepts and the movie is underway . 
drawing from frederick knott's play and loosely based on hitchcock's dial m for murder , this is all-too typical of summer releases . 
all style and no substance . 
and there's really not much style . 
director andrew davis ( the accomplished witness and best-forgotten other films ) has made exactly the wrong choices at almost every turn . 
douglas and paltrow have both shown us that they are skillful actors in previous films . 
mortensen showed promise in the past . 
here all three are walking uninterestingly through their roles with oddly waxen faces . 
the only person who shows any sense of life is david suchet as new york detective mohamed karaman . 
he's only on-screen long enough to make you think that there might be a likable person in the film and then he disappears . 
the first concern of a suspense film is to create suspense . 
surprises are important . 
in this movie the audience keeps waiting for something to happen . 
and nothing ever does . 
nearly every event is telegraphed in advance . 
close-up on this object or that action and it's easy to guess what's going to happen . 
as the film plods towards its inevitable conclusion you keep expecting a plot twist to make the movie worthwhile . 
it's a hopeless quest . 
the story doesn't make much sense . 
steven's wife is loaded . 
even with unfriendly relations , you'd think that he could have talked to her about his difficulty rather than deciding to kill her . 
when he does decide on the dire plan he makes an unreasonable choice . 
if you were going to hire someone to kill your wife , would your first choice be her lover ? 
no matter how sleazy he is , i would think there might be a chance that he would turn down the opportunity . 
why would steven plan the murder as a break-in in their apartment ? 
why not just take her out as she was walking to david's loft in a bad neighborhood ? 
while deciding among the numerous summer films , you might do well to skip this one . 
you'll find more suspense than this movie offers by watching the weather channel . 
 " virus " is a monster movie without a monster . 
any movie with a hurdle that large to overcome had better be pretty damn good otherwise . 
sadly , " virus " does not deliver , on any level . 
the movie opens with the russian space station mir about to transmit something ( we never find out what ) to a big boat with lots of satellites on it . 
sudddenly , a wave of colorful lightning comes flying through space , and winds up destroying mir and using it to transmit itself to the aforementioned big boat . 
cut to seven days later , we meet donald sutherland and his band of seafaring vultures . 
see , they spend all their time sailing around looking for dead-in-the-water ships to rescue , and then collect the reward money . 
at least , i * think * that's what they do . 
along with many other things in the film , their reason for being out in the middle of the ocean isn't really explained . 
so , they stumble upon this big boat with lots of satellites on it , and decide to haul it back to russian waters . 
the only problem is , the crew starts disappearing one-by-one and turning into borg . 
yes , borg . 
complete with the red laser beam in place of an eye . 
apparently , this alien lifeform can only survive if inside something electrical . 
so , it creates make-shift machines and uses humans for " spare parts " . 
blah , blah , blah . 
i could go on forever describing the ludicrous so-called plot , but i won't . 
suffice it to say the most original thing about this movie is having donald sutherland play an irish man ( ! ) . 
everything else in this movie has been taken from other ( better ) movies . 
for example , many of the machines resemble those found in the little-seen japanese movie , " tetsuo-the iron man " . 
and the plot is right out of " aliens " . 
the funny thing is , i was actually expecting to enjoy this movie . 
i have a soft spot for cheesy monster movies , like last years under-appreciated " deep rising " . 
but " virus " , as i mentioned earlier , doesn't even have a monster . 
it just has a big pile of circuits and wires and expects the audience to fear this ridiculous looking contraption . 
 " virus " is the type of movie that really makes you wonder what the screenwriter was thinking about when he wrote it . 
besides the lame " monster " , it's chock full of dialogue that no real person would ever say , and situations that no real person would ever allow themselves to get into . 
for example , there is a scene late in the movie in which one of the characters actually attempts to * negotiate * with the alien ! 
now , i don't know about you , but if i came upon a lifeform that viewed mankind as a virus to be eliminated , i doubt that i would attempt to reason with it . 
that makes about as much sense as a baby squirrel calmly asking a fierce predator to spare his life . 
finally , " virus " isn't scary . 
the least the filmmakers could have done was to make the movie just a little scary . 
as it is , it's about as frightening as a box of cookies . 
skip " virus " . 
if it's a cool monster movie you want , rent the far superior ( and the granddaddy of this genre ) " aliens " . 
dr . alan grant ( sam neill , " jurassic park " ) is becoming disillusioned . 
paleontology is no longer the sexy science it once was since the ingen corporation cloned his subject matter . 
his lectures bring people interested in his adventures on isla nubla rather than his research and funding dollars are drying up . 
when the kirbys ( william h . macy , " fargo " ; tea leoni , " the family man " ) ask him to be their guide for an anniversary flyover of isla sorna ( the notorious site b of " the lost world " ) he's disdainful , but once they wave their checkbook , he reconsiders . 
however the kirbys haven't given dr . grant their real agenda in " jurassic park iii . " 
of course , we , the audience , have been tipped off , given that the film begins by showing us eric ( trevor morgan , " the patriot " ) , a young boy , and ben ( mark harelik , " election " ) going for a paragliding adventure off that same island that goes awry ( and looks like cheesy rear projection ) . 
grant's established back home with a new right hand man , billy brennan ( alessandro nivola , " love's labour's lost " ) on site at a dig in montana sorely lacking funds . 
he also pays a visit to old flame dr . ellie sattler ( laura dern , " jurassic park " ) , now married to another with a young son who calls grant 'the dinosaur man' apparently for the sole purpose of dredging her up again for the film's poorly imagined finale . 
grant takes billy along on the kirbys trip , which is really an illegal gambit to save their son , that young paraglider . 
the couple aren't millionaires , making grant's check bogus , and they're separated as well ( eric was with amanda's new boyfriend , not that that makes much sense ) , meaning we're in for some gooey family dynamics while waiting for the dino dining . 
the kirbys hired hands ( and obvious bait ) are a threesome led by mr . udesky ( michael jeter , " the gift " ) . 
 ( didn't anyone consider that casting michael jeter and william h . macy together and not having them be related was a little odd ? ) 
as directed by joe johnston ( " october sky , " " jumanji " ) ( spielberg only produced this one ) from a risible script by peter buchman and the " election " team of alexander payne & jim taylor , " jurassic park iii " is nothing more than a quickie monster flick with a couple of new dinos ( a spinosauraus , which goes head to head with the t-rex , and pteranodons ) . 
the plot , as it were , is a series of coincidences combined with extreme leaps of faith and a trifecta of stupid cell phone tricks . 
the effects are no longer new , and , as shot by television cinematographer shelly johnson , rather murky looking at times . 
film editing by robert dalva ( " october sky " ) was presumably done by machete , to keep this down to a 90 minute run time . 
i know of no other reason to explain the ridiculous ending which features the survivors confronting a pack of raptors , then being saved by the most ludicrous of logic jumps within a few minutes . 
'original' music by don davis just repeats john williams' original themes . 
while neill and young morgan attempt to inject some humor and humanity into the proceedings , the rest of the cast are plodding unexceptional . 
 " jurassic park iii " will probably provide some quick entertainment for those who go into it knowing what to expect , the same crowd who maybe liked " the lost world : jurassic park . " 
barb wire , pamela anderson lee's first foray into films , highlights the fact that her only talent lies in her silicone enhanced assets . 
being the only notable member of the cast , the camera lingers lustily o n her body at every opportunity , making her character's catch line , " don't call me babe , " sound very ironic indeed . 
from the very opening of the movie , we are treated to a striptease routine from anderson , ending in her hurling her stiletto smack between the eyes of a lusty male who happened to call her babe . 
throughout the movie , there is ample footage of enormous breasts and cleavage , if not of anderson's , then at least of the female extras . 
this alone is enough to retitle the movie babe wire . 
for a plot , barb wire rehashes the casablanca storyline . 
it is 2017 , the middle of the second american civil war , and barb wire , a former resistance fighter , runs a joint in steel harbour called hammerhead ( ! ! ) . 
known for attracting resistance fighters an d characters of all sorts , the bar attracts the attention of the government forces who appear dressed in nazi-style uniforms . 
in between bashing up helpless males and showing off her trademark breasts , barb wire has to help a former lover and his wife get to the airport on the other side of the town , past the government-controlled areas , and to freedom . 
even the airport looks like the one in casablanca , except that the plane in the background is a modern , private jet . 
there are hardly any significant moments in this film , and one gets the impression that it was designed for young teenagers familiar with the dark horse comics version of " barb wire . " 
if anything , one leaves the film with the confirmation that anderson di d not do her own stunts . 
who could fight and jump in a skimpy , strapless leather top , and yet keep her breasts from spilling out ? 
only a stuntwoman . 
not pamela anderson lee . 
humanities quest for knowledge never ends . 
so a team of scientists and film-makers travel to the amazon to search for a legendary indian tribe . 
the party consists of anthropologist steven cale ( eric stoltz ) and the camera team consisting of terri flores ( jennifer lopez ) , danny rich ( ice cube ) , gary dixon ( owen wilson ) , denise kahlberg ( kari wuhrer ) and warren westridge ( jonathan hyde ) . 
early on their journey they meet paul sarone ( jon voight ) whose boat is stuck on the shore . 
they agree to give him a ride to the next village . 
he claims to know the area well and can be useful locating the native tribe . 
very soon their friendliness backfires on the group because sarone turns out to be a snake hunter without scruples who only wants to catch a giant anaconda and sell it to a zoo . 
we don't have to wait too long for the giant snake . 
she just had a panther hors d'oevre and now is looking for the main course . 
our heroes paddle around in the amazonas as if it were the pool in their own backyard . 
no wonder giant animals mistake their splashing for a dinner bell . 
our anaconda is a polite one and swallows the first victim in one big gulp . 
enjoy ! 
so much for the first attempt to catch her . 
but who would want to catch a giant snake with a fishing pole ? 
our villain sarone shows his soft side when he stops terri from shooting the snake . 
too bad that anaconda is just about to strangle another member of the expedition . 
one by one she goes after the others . 
eric stoltz is stung by a giant wasp right in the beginning and is mercifully unconcious for the rest of the adventure . 
the rest of the crew keeps entertaining the viewer although not the way the makers of the movie had planned . 
however the scenes without the anaconda are rather boring . 
whenever the leading lady shows up we're in for a laugh . 
the snake reminds us of a favorite character of a famous animated movie even if she should be an awe-inspiring monster . 
her attacks always follow the same plan : one last hypnotic look - she's looking at you , kid - then she speedily wraps herself around her victim and starts to gush it down . 
mostly we don't see the act of devouring . 
but she looks nice when she wiggles away with her bulging middle part . 
whoever did the special effects on this movie may have wanted to go to a zoo first and study some real snakes . 
maybe then the anaconda model would have looked more real . 
the animatronics are somewhat more believable . 
but that didn't work for the strangling scenes . 
don't go see the movie for the f/x . 
they are everything but up-to-date . 
the viewer who likes to watch the end credits will see to his/her surprise that a snake expert was a consultant for the team . 
we may doubt though that he has ever seen the final result of his work . 
a well known american science magazine is also mentioned in the credits , but i will refrain from naming it here to avoid further damage to its reputation . 
the majority of viewer will have left the theater as soon as the credits start rolling , anyway . 
what kind of audience is the target group for this movie ? 
hard to say . 
this can't be a serious horror movie , or can it ? 
see for yourself . 
absolute power , the new film produced and directed by clint eastwood , attempts to be a thriller set in the world of hypocritical presidents and their murderous political staff . 
it is about as thrilling as a lecture on the mating habits of the south american grasshopper . 
one can only wonder how an utterly absurd script like the one written by william goldman could have ever interested eastwood . 
not only is the plot unbelievable and contrived , but even the writing itself lacks any consistency or intelligence . 
continually underestimating the audience , the film gives us information we already know or dont even need . 
details essential to the story are so improbably convenient they are annoying ( like why would two unprepared secret service men carry two night-vision goggles in their car ? ) . 
oddly enough , the initial setup for absolute power offers interesting possibilities . 
a masterful jewel-thief ( played by clint eastwood ) witnesses the murder of the wife of a powerful millionaire ( played by e . g . 
marshall ) . 
while robbing one of marshalls mansions , he is forced to hide in the bedrooms vault . 
there , through a two-way mirror , he sees the wife and another man engage in passionate foreplay . 
their game of love quickly turns into a violent struggle as the man starts beating the woman . 
in self defense , the woman grabs a letter-opener and stabs the man in the elbow . 
she raises her arm to stab again when she is fatally shot by two secret service men . 
the man ? 
he is the president of the united states of america . 
where does the film go wrong ? 
it cannot be the acting . 
clint eastwood , ed harris and gene hackman as the president give type-cast , but decent performances . 
the cinematography is sufficient ; wild and erratic during action sequences , dark and mysterious during psychologically suspenseful scenes , and calm and warm during dramatic dialogue . 
even the music is not as bombastic as it usually tends to be in the thriller/suspense genre . 
the fault clearly lies in the screenplay , and the screenplay alone . 
while setting up a story about misuse of power , about the true possessors of that power , and about intrigue and double-crossing , it does not resolve it . 
not one buildup of suspense is resolved by an exciting climax . 
rather , the tense situations are left dangling at the end , giving the viewer an uneasy sense of incompleteness . 
an example of this is a very promising and tense buildup of a scene : in an attempt to arrest clint eastwood , the police have set up a trap at a small restaurant . 
police officers are everywhere , incognito of course . 
at the same time , not one but two hit men are preparing to kill clint eastwood when he arrives . 
all three parties are unaware of each others presence . 
this scene is tremendously exciting and the audience is wondering how clint eastwood , who might suspect this is a trap , will get himself out of this difficult position . 
he will probably have a brilliant plan , involving ingenious preparations . 
however , when he arrives at the trap , both hit men miss ( how convenient ) and in the confusion eastwood simply walks away . 
the buildup of this scene took about ten minutes . 
ten minutes of close ups of the hit men loading their weapons intercut with the police preparing for the trap . 
the scene was resolved in less than 20 seconds . . . 
parallel to the story line of catching the real killer is a cliche emotional tale about the estranged relationship between father eastwood and his daughter . 
the daughter blames her father for never being there for her , because he was either in jail or robbing a house somewhere . 
of course their relationship takes a turn for the better during the adventure and they end up a happy family . 
again , it is commendable that absolute power tries to deviate from the mainstream suspense film by giving room for a dramatic subplot . 
however , trying is simply not enough ! 
the second story line should be subtle , original and preferably unpredictable . . . 
everything this film is not . 
how could a screenplay like absolute power ever get the funding to be produced ? 
how could eastwood , who has successfully produced and directed many outstanding films such as the brilliant unforgiven , ever believe in a project like this one ? 
i am sad to say that my respect for the actor/director/producer has diminished substantially due to this film . 
director quentin tarantino once said : " i can make a good movie out of any bad script . " 
director clint eastwood obviously cannot . 
ever feel you're spending your whole life on the net ( ouch ! ) , eating , breathing and excreting web sites ? 
that your most meaningful relationships are being formed on the net ? 
that you get your best sex on the net ? 
if first-time director hal salwen could shoot an entire movie of characters typing at their computers , he would . 
as it is , he settles for characters talking on the phone . 
denise calls up is a movie for and about the electronic generation , where characters are too caught up with their work and insecurities prefer to live out their relationships and fantasies on the phone . 
it's a satire - and a sometimes funny one - about how we let handphones , call-waiting and answering machines run our lives . 
the problem : denise calls up is a movie about an idea . 
a darn good one , but still an 80 minute-long idea . 
and despite salwen's attempt at plots and sub-plots , despite some genuinely funny moments , you can predict the movie's outcome within the first fifteen minutes . 
you get the drift after a series of shots of characters explaining over the phone why they all couldn't make it for a party - nobody is going to be meeting anybody in this film , they would rather be talking on the phone . 
here's salwen's plot : while all the characters are in a dysfunctional , telefixated limbo , loud quirky stranger denise calls up martin to announce that she is pregnant with his child , courtesy of the sperm he donated to the local bank . 
as martin progresses from slamming the phone on her to long phone conversations over the baby's name , his friends - and his friends' friends - get involved , courtesy of call-waiting and double-lines . 
in the tigher and more tantalizing sub-plot , barbara and jerry are set up on a blind date that neither turns up for . 
both profess to have too complicated schedules to ever meet , but they get it going over the phone . 
with repeated phone sex comes a glitch ; what if the other person is simply faking it ? 
denise calls up scores with some inspired moments . 
mousy barbara metamorphoses into a vamp over her cordless , everyone shares the excitement of denise's delivery through a conference call to her handphone , and barbara's best friend gale is killed in a car accident while taling animatedly into another friend's answering machine . 
 ( as gale's overly-chatty aunt recounts , her cordless was knicked into her ear and lodged in her brain . ) 
but these moments are not enough to sustain the movie . 
the pace sags , the dialogue drags and not much acting appears to be required of the telephone-touters . 
and the ending is literally a non-event as expected , everyone is too chicken to turn up for the party frank throws in gale's memory despite promising over the phone that they will . 
we get the point . 
the movie appears to be intent on flogging its terribly-'90s statement until they have it coming out of your ears . 
pun intended . 
there's even a on the movie's web site where you can win cellular phones ( as if we haven't had enough of these things already ) . 
watch the movie only if you find it philosophy compelling enough for a earful . 
the flying inkpot's rating system : * wait for the video . 
 * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha ! 
 * * * pretty good , bring a friend . 
 * * * * amazing , potent stuff . 
 * * * * * perfection . 
see it twice . 
 " book " should have remained in shadows 
book of shadows : blair witch 2 
a film review by michael redman copyright 2000 by michael redman 
certain things in our lives are inevitable . 
death , sorrow , love , heartbreak , pain , joy . 
we expect these events . 
we know they're going to happen and some , we even look forward to . 
it's part of the human condition . 
we have also become accustomed to inevitable occurrences in our society . 
as we near the fall election , several of them are hitting us in the face . 
politicians exaggerate their own importance . 
our side is always right ; theirs is always wrong . 
in the end , voters are usually forced to choose the lesser of two whocares . 
in hollywood the one indisputable inevitable is that if a film makes big money , there will be a sequel . 
even if the original story doesn't merit one . 
even if the first film is complete in itself . 
even if success is a fluke . 
 " the blair witch project " was made with a budget of $1 . 75 and exploded on the screen , raking in huge profits . 
the concept was brilliant . 
the filmmakers created a remarkable buzz that the story might be real . 
the film itself was even more convincing . 
the movie _must_ be authentic . 
why else would such amateurish footage be on the big screen ? 
the first film caught lightning in a bottle . 
the sequel proves you can't pour that old lightning into a new bottle . 
you have to give this effort some credit . 
it would have been easy to have made the same movie again with a new group of kids . 
it would have been easy , but of course , it wouldn't have worked . 
instead " book of shadows " acknowledges the first film as a movie and concentrates on the hysteria following its release . 
it's a great scheme and possibly the only entertaining way to do a sequel . 
unfortunately it doesn't work either . 
five kids spend the night in the woods at the scene of the first film . 
weird stuff happens and they retreat to an old factory where one of them lives . 
even weirder stuff happens . 
some people die , there's blood and knives and none of the characters have a lick of common sense . 
while supposedly doing serious research , the group sets up a circle of surveillance cameras in the ruins of the old house in the woods and vows to stay alert all night awaiting a visitation . 
then they proceed to get totally trashed on drugs and alcohol and party down with very loud , very obnoxious heavy metal music . 
it's a bad plan . 
the cast shows some early promise . 
a couple is doing research on a " blair witch " book . 
the tour guide is a former mental patient turned ebay aficionado . 
a goth amazon princess adds a bit of comedic relief . 
the obligatory hot babe is the 2000 spiritual cinematic descendent of the cute hippie chick , the cute rock and roll chick and the cute disco chick : the cute wiccan chick . 
the first film's unaccomplished actors came across as real people in a real situation because hours and hours of video were shot during days in the woods . 
this time , these unaccomplished actors just come across as unaccomplished actors . 
there's not one character you care about when they start shouting for no reason . 
although what passes for a plot starts out with a solid idea , it's ruined by poor execution . 
the follow-up to one of the most successful horror films ever is nothing more than a bad slasher movie . 
they're trapped in an old big weird house . 
they stupidly separate into various rooms . 
there are strange noises , they see scary apparitions and people disappear . 
ever see this movie ? 
seasoned documentary director joe berlinger should know better . 
the film features mostly cheap tricks and unnecessary gore . 
for a storyline filled with surprises , it's oddly predicable . 
 " the blair witch project " was a rare triumph of style over substance . 
 " the book of shadows " is a triumph of tedium over promise . 
warren beatty , diane keaton , goldie hawn and gary shandling star as a pair of married couples whose complacent lives are about to be shaken up in director peter chelsom's version of the classic romantic , screwball comedy in " town & country . " 
the drawing room farce of the 30's dealt with sexual innuendo and relied on wit and a great deal of commotion and noise to place the viewer in the thick of the duplicitous romantic action . 
back then , impossibly wealthy scions of society , with too much free time , would get themselves wrapped up in all sorts of sexual peccadilloes with spouses and lovers , only to have everything come out all right in the end - see " the philadelphia story " for a great farce . 
 " town & country " has the impossibly wealthy protagonists with too much free time - the kind of people that have jobs but never seem to work - and sexual misconduct on several levels . 
but , there is almost no life to original script by michael laughlin and buck henry and this is " t&c's " downfall . 
there is , obviously , a great deal of hollywood talent , in front of and behind the camera , involved in " town & country , " but , without a likable or , at least , interesting story to carry through their efforts , it is all for naught . 
and , that's what we get here - naught . 
porter stoddard ( beatty ) is a high-powered new york architect with a very good life indeed . 
his 25-year marriage to ellie ( diane keaton ) appears , on the surface , to be perfect . 
but , there are cracks just below this pristine surface . 
his wife is suspicious of his whereabouts , his kids don't need him and his best friends , griffin ( garry shandling ) and mona ( goldie hawn ) , are in the midst of a divorce . 
porter tries to get control of his life before it is too late , but like a man fighting against quicksand , his struggle just sinks him deeper . 
at the 90-minute mark of " town & country " i asked myself , " what's the point ? " 
i wasn't entertained , i laughed three times - over silly little pratfalls - and spent most of the film marking time 'til the end . 
warren beatty wanders around with his character in a bewildered fog , making problems for himself by thinking with a part of his anatomy other than his head . 
keaton's ellie is an empty headed flake who can't see the obvious as porter screws around on her . 
and , as you get to know them , who would want friends like griffin and mona ? 
the supporting cast is given nothing to do and , sometimes , does harm to the film , given the material they are forced to use . 
nastassja kinski plays a cellist with whom porter has a fling . 
the actress , who has , eerily , failed to age over the years , is miscast as the air-headed musician and the character doesn't belong , anyway . 
jenna elfman is a sweet , but smart , ditz who joins porter and griffin on one of their tacked on misadventures . 
andie macdowell is absolutely painful to watch as a wealthy heiress ( is there any other kind in this movie ? ) 
who comes on to porter . 
the saving grace is a pair of quirky perf's by charlton heston and marian seldes as macdowell's very strange parents . 
glib rationalization of infidelity , like , " if he doesn't speak english , it doesn't count , " are a staple for the screenplay . 
the morality of the film seems to be , if you can get away with it , go for it . 
the cast of characters are mostly people you wouldn't want to know , never mind befriend . 
the actors do their best , but are hamstrung by the weak material . 
helmer chelsom , who made the outstanding , offbeat comedy " funny bones , " is mired in the mess of a script and never puts his imprint on " town & country . " 
the production values are high , as one expects from a big budget hollywood film . 
but , the opulent sets by caroline hanania , lavish wardrobes by molly maginnis and top-notch photography by william fraker cannot save " town & country . " 
the film has had a long list of production and distribution problems and it might have been better , for me anyway , if hollywood just said no to this movie . 
i give it a d . 
the crown jewel of 1970's irwin allen disaster movies , the poseidon adventure features an all-star cast including gene hackman and ernest borgnine spouting some of the most laughable dramatic dialogue in movie history while trapped on a cruise ship . 
the story begins on the u . s . s . 
poseidon's big new year's cruise , where we are introduced to the ensemble of people who will soon be the only passengers left alive . 
let's see , there's the new age preacher ( hackman ) who advises people to " pray to that part of god within yourself . " 
there's the ex-cop ( borgnine ) who busted a hooker ( stella stevens ) six times -- then married her . 
there's the hippie singer ( " there's got to be a morning after . . . " ) who turns to the company of a lonely man ( red buttons ) once her brother is killed . 
and to round out the group : the elderly couple ( jack albertson and shelley winters ) who live aboard the ship , the beautiful teenage girl and her brother who are sailing alone and adventurous scotsman roddy mcdowall . 
we get to know these people a little too well in the first thirty minutes of the poseidon adventure , before straight- faced ship captain leslie nielson looks in horror at the giant tidal wave headed right for the ship . 
everyone's in the giant ballroom at the time , shortly past midnight of the new year , when the ship turns first on its side , then completely upside down . 
the second- in-command wants everyone to wait in the ballroom until help arrives , but rebel hackman leads his small band of followers on a quest to the top of the ship . 
in this case , because the ship is overturned , the top is the bottom . 
or is the bottom the top ? 
either way , we get to see a lot of bottoms because the two beautiful women in the crew are both conveniently wearing hot pants during the scenes where the camera shoots upwards while they climb up ladders and -- in the ballroom scene -- christmas trees . 
thus begins an hour or more of hushed trips down long corridors , through burning rooms , etc . while the ship slowly fills with water behind them . 
it's a race against the clock which is only mildly interesting . 
the poseidon adventure works more as a bad movie to laugh at , with all the melodrama that comes in-between the non-thrilling action scenes . 
the one note in borgnine's one-note performance is to be a cranky old man that argues with hackman every step of the way while buttons and the hippie fall in love ( although since there isn't a sex scene , we never find out if his buttons really are red ) and albertson and winters wonder if they'll live to see their grandson's birth . 
shelley winters provides the most hilarious scene in the movie in a scene toward the end , where water has flooded the next two rooms of the ship and hackman is preparing to dive under with a rope for the rest of them to pull along . 
winters , who has been the whiny fat woman throughout the movie ( stevens even not-so- affectionately calls her " fatass " in one scene ) , finally finds her purpose . 
 " i was the underwater swimming champ of new york three years running when i was seventeen , " she brags , and before hackman can even ask her how she could be seventeen for three years , she's swimming through the water , her skirt billowing up around her hips , showing off her cellulite ( or do you call it shellulite ? ) 
ridden thighs . 
it's not so much funny as innately disgusting , which pretty much sums up the poseidon adventure as a whole . 
while watching loser , it occurred to me that amy heckerling's true genius as a film-maker is casting . 
in fast times at ridgemont high , she gave us sean penn's jeff spicoli ; in look who's talking , she turned bruce willis into a wise-cracking baby and provided john travolta with is first career revival ; in clueless , she found a star vehicle for the adorableness that is ( or was ) alicia silverstone . 
she seems to understand instinctively how to find performers the audience will like in spite of their flaws . 
unfortunately , she may also be starting to understand that she understands . 
giving appealing actors an appealing script creates likeable movies . 
giving appealing actors a script in which their appeal _is_ the movie makes for unexpectedly awful films like loser . 
naturally , heckerling makes her protagonist an all-around swell guy . 
paul tannek ( jason biggs ) is a small-town boy who gets a scholarship to nyu , then instantly finds himself an island of compassion and diligence in the cold-hearted big city . 
paul is the kind of guy who gives up his seat on the subway to an elderly woman ; his roommates adam ( zak orth ) , chris ( tom sadoski ) and noah ( jimmi simpson ) are the kind of guys who blast their music and let their waterbeds leak all over paul . 
paul is also the kind of guy who adores girls from afar , in this case the lovely dora diamond ( mena suvari ) . 
dora has problems of her own , including a shortage of funds to pay her tuition and a relationship with a professor , edward alcott ( greg kinnear ) , that's more than slightly one-sided . 
they're two conscientious kids who love animals and homeless people , so clearly they belong together , even if paul is a loser . 
i must confess that , for a while , i was suckered in by heckerling's casting . 
jason biggs is an engaging performer whose unconventional looks make him even easier to embrace ; suvari is a coquette with an undercurrent of intelligence . 
they're pleasant enough to watch , and heckerling gives us plenty of scenes establishing how nice they are and how nice their respective antagonists aren't . 
then it gradually becomes clear that there's virtually nothing to loser but scenes of that sort . 
in theory , loser is a romantic comedy , but there is scarcely a laugh to be found in the entire film ( notable exception : a cameo by a scene-stealing comic actor as a video store clerk ) . 
instead of taking any time to make the characters' situations funny , heckerling spends 98 minutes making her characters' situations pathetic . 
she shows none of the ear for quirky dialogue that sparked clueless , nor any of that film's interest in lively plotting ( not surprisingly , since clueless's plot came via jane austen's emma ) . 
she simply turns the film into a pity party . 
since loser is a film composed almost entirely of establishing character , you might think that those characters would be interesting , or at least slightly complicated . 
instead , you have people either so perfect or so unredeemable that there's no reason to watch them . 
paul isn't just a nice guy , he's flawless ; consequently , he's a central character who does absolutely no growing . 
his roommates aren't just inconsiderate , they're actively evil-blackmailing professor alcott , drugging women with rohypnol and generally giving humanity a bad name . 
and professor alcott isn't just manipulative , he turns dora into his house slave . 
dora's unthinking devotion to alcott is the only whiff of basic human frailty to be found in loser , and even that isn't explored in sufficient detail . 
there's more ambiguity in the 30-second snippet from alan cumming's broadway performance as the emcee in cabaret then there is in the rest of loser it's one thing to turn supporting characters into comic exaggerations ; it's another to flatten your leads into easily digestible mush . 
and it would help if those comic exaggerations were somehow . . . 
i don't know . . . 
comic . 
still , i spent much of the film holding out the ridiculous hope that heckerling would somehow salvage loser from its tedium and justify my desire to like paul and dora . 
that hope dissolved the moment heckerling underscored a sequence of paul in the throes of unrequited love to simon and garfunkel's " scarborough fair/canticle . " 
instead of giving the sequence a knowing wink-a reference to the graduate , a hint that paul is becoming an overly-sensitive clich-heckerling plays it deadly straight . 
even in the scenes that scream for a light comic touch and a bit of a poke at her protagonist's foibles , she finds it impossible to stray from the gospel of paul as saint . 
clueless's cher had her self-absorption and manipulative tendencies to balance her cuteness . 
in loser , amy heckerling shows a leaden hand with material that demands friskiness ( her one show of wit involves naming paul's dorm " hunt's hall " after erstwhile bowery boy huntz hall ) . 
her gift with casting proved to be her curse . 
loser may be a crashing bore , but gee , aren't those two kids swell ? 
capsule : john the baptist is sent from heaven to see is the world is worth saving . 
he must find some sign of hope in the people of newfoundland . 
this is little more than a tv skit in movie form . 
it is watchable and apparently will be released to theaters in canada , but it is unlikely to be seen on the international market . 
it is diverting but hardly a serious piece of cinema . 
 , 0 ( -4 to +4 ) minor spoilers in this review . 
- written and directed by john w . doyle . 
- john the baptist sent to st . john , newfoundland . 
gets an invitation to live with a family . 
that extraordinary hospitality for some reason does not count as a reason for hope . 
- script has a lot of holes . 
- friend who adopts john is surprisingly militant and is planning actions to destabilize wall street . 
- john does look middle eastern , but somehow one expects john the baptist to be more dramatic . 
- there is a conspiracy in the vatican riding on the result of the visit , though that result seems small compared to the end of the world . 
- big yucks like seeing a nun give the pope a pedicure and evil pope's aid praying to a mendes goat . 
- in large part a satire of life in newfoundland taking licks at things like the poor produce . 
the one good tomato in grocery ( by virtue of a miracle ) " must have fallen off the truck to toronto . " 
- based on a 20-minute short film . 
the " disney stick-to-what-you-do-best " rule states that disney's animated features will invariably be sublime but whenever they try their hand at live-action kids' entertainment , they will fail miserably . 
this goes double for occasions when they try to make a live-action adaptation of a popular cartoon ( remember the 1996 version of 101 dalmations ? 
i'm still trying to forget ) . 
that rule proves more dependable than ever with inspector gadget , an insulting , despicable and , worst of all , expensive piece of trash trying to pass itself off as a viable children's film . 
it will bore anyone over five and should prove unbearable for adults , even at its relatively skinny running time of 80 minutes . 
it's films like this that make me want to go to my local blockbuster and rent something from the days when brains were more important than budgets and wit compensated for lack of fancy effects . 
just as matthew broderick began to convince me that there is hope for him as an actor yet , his career takes a nosedive to hell with his " role " as john brown , a depressed security guard with a big heart who hopes that one day he can become a real policemen and help the people around him . 
he dreams of heroic deeds and the subsequent admiration of his long time crush , dr . brenda bradford ( joely fisher ) . 
but after a few bizarre coincidences it seems that he has to dream no longer . 
john breaks every bone in his body while trying to save dr . brenda's father . 
dr . brenda has been working on a " gadget project , " which would make a half-man half-machine super-policeman to fight crime . 
feeling indebted to john she decides to save his life by making him the subject , realizing his dream of becoming a policeman . 
now , when he says " go go gadget [insert name of gizmo here] " he can use all kinds of nifty gadgets to capture crooks , bang up bandits and mangle murderers . 
in the meantime , the evil claw ( rupert everett ) , the man responsible for the murder of the good doctor's father is building a gadget of his own : a carbon copy of our inspector gadget except evil and john brown's worst nemesis . 
claw has plans of world domination , which leaves it up to the inspector and his gadget mobile ( voice of d . l . 
hughley ) to save humanity from his wrath . 
state of the art effects fly at a mad pace in this $90 million dollar movie and yet director david kelogg never sets up a convincing atmosphere . 
had they replaced all the fancy gizmos with dollar bills they would have wound up with the same effect . 
what we see on the screen is like the raw ingredients of a meal : all of the expensive f/x amounts to nothing . 
part of the charm of the tv series was its sly irreverence which has gone down the toilet in the condescending movie . 
can kids really admire a hero so goody-two-shoes that he screams " hey ! 
you ran a stop sign ! " 
while hanging off the back bumper of a quickly moving vehicle ? 
i think that today's children will respond better to somebody dashing , someone ultra-cool . 
they ( probably ) receive enough preaching from their parents and its an insult to their intelligence to assume that they want to go to an action movie to see a father figure kick butt . 
in addition to the more complex complaints above , there's also the simple stuff : inspector gadget is boring , formulaic and achingly implausible . 
there's no feeling that the director really cares about his story : more than any other film i've seen this year , this one really feels like it was made on an assembly line . 
there's a popular commercial ( for sprite , but that's irrelevant ) running in movie theaters before features that spoofs the way major studios deal with projects . 
it consists of studio suits discussing a fictitious ( thank god ) movie called " death slug " . 
each executive gleefully presents a different merchandise tie-in ( slug taco ! 
slug on a stick ! ) . 
at the end one of them asks " what about the movie ? " 
another answers : " well , we don't have a script yet , but we can bang one out by friday . " 
they probably could have replaced " death slug " with inspector gadget . 
this film contains the sort of logical contradictions and blatantly obvious adherence to formula that could have been eliminated had any attention been payed to the script . 
it's no coincidence that most good children's entertainment these days comes from animation . 
animated features take so long to maker that it becomes a labor of love for the filmmakers and they put care and pride into their work . 
these kinds of films are banged out quicker and a good percentage turn out worthless , sloppy and impersonal . 
the studios are becoming factories and films their assembled products . 
 ? 1999 eugene novikov&#137 ; 
as the twin surfer dudes , stew and phil deedle , lay bandaged and unconscious in the hospital , phil comes to first and chooses the coolest way to wake his brother . 
yanking out his iv , he uses it like a water pistol to soak his brother's face . 
this bit of lame physical humor is typical of disney's meet the deedles , a movie more to be endured that watched . 
 ( i stopped looking at my wife during the screening , since every time i did , she'd start sticking her finger in her throat . 
and she's right , it is that bad . ) 
directed without any imagination by steve boyum , whose long background in film is mainly in stunts and in second unit direction , the film limps along at best . 
boyum attempts to keep the pace moving by staging stunts , stunts and more stunts . 
amazingly for someone with his background , he seems incapable of finding any fresh ones , and we have a car go off the road five different times -- maybe more . 
but who's counting ? 
and then there is the script by james herzfeld , whose only other film , tapeheads from a decade ago , was so awful that it is considered a cult classic . 
meet the deedles , however , is painfully bad rather than laughably bad . 
it will probably be in and out of the theaters like a tornado and is in no danger of becoming a classic anything . 
herzfeld treats us to gratingly abysmal dialog that includes " your geyser's a geezer , " and " i'd like to put a deedle in her haystack . " 
as the movie opens , the twins , who at one point describe themselves modestly as " a walking kodak moment , " are celebrating their 18th birthday . 
as they ride a parasail high above the waters of waikiki , a truant officer pursues them on his jet ski . 
as heirs to the fabulous fortune of the deedle empire , the boys are sent by their father to camp broken spirit at yellowstone to transform the two laid-back beach bums into men . 
as they arrive in their wetsuits in yellowstone , they've got their surfboards , skateboards , and a hawaiian drink machine the size of an armoire . 
their camp has gone out of business , but they are mistaken for new park rangers . 
the rest of the movie has them fighting the park's overpopulation of prairie dogs as well as a deranged ex-ranger , played by dennis hopper , who is out to stop old faithful before its billionth birthday celebration , scheduled for later in the week . 
hopper , who has made some wonderful movies , carried away being a recent favorite , does have a propensity for choosing some truly odoriferous material . 
this isn't his worst acting , but meet the deedles is arguably the worst movie he's ever been in . 
steve van wormer and paul walker , as stew and phil , give lifeless performances . 
the only actor in the movie with any demonstrable talent is a cute little prairie dog named petey . 
even the cinematography by david hennings is so prosaic that it manages to make yellowstone look dull . 
to add insult to injury , hennings is fond of inappropriate close-ups , which only serve to remind us of the inanity of the dialog . 
put a ten-foot pair of lips on the screen , and you naturally pay extra attention to what is said . 
although boyum says in the notes that he is proud that his film is appropriate for families , one wonders how many skateboarders will attempt the movie's stunt of lying on your back on a skateboard while negotiating a busy and twisting mountain road . 
they make it look like so much fun that i'm sure many will try some variation of the stunt . 
 " how could this possibly be worst , " asks phil . 
just when you suspect it can't , the movie takes a turn further downhill . 
its low point may have you looking for an airline barf bag . 
after phil's girlfriend digs up a big mount of moist soil , they suck in a long worm . 
like the two dog lovers eating spaghetti in lady and the tramp , their lips finally meet in a kiss . 
as they pull back , their faces are full of the dirt that encased the worm they have just ingested . 
meet the deedles runs about an hour and a half . 
it is rated pg for a little bathroom humor and would be acceptable for kids around 6 and up . 
my son jeffrey and his friend nickolas , both almost 9 , gave the show * * * . 
they both thought the scenes with petey were among their favorites . 
nickolas also mentioned the scene in which the circus bear drives a jeep , and jeffrey especially liked the one in which the circus elephant was referred to as dumbo . 
'bicentennial man' is a family film without any external motive with the exception of providing the minimum dose of entertainment . 
chris columbus , the director who gave you " mrs . doubtfire " , plays on sentimental strings and mushy dialogue to make his point . 
based on the short story by isaac asimov , it is supposed to be a science fiction story about a robot who wants to be human , which as you can imagine is very difficult . 
starting in a not too distant future the film concentrates on a wealthy family that buys an android to help them with the house and children . 
soon this robot , called andrew ( robin williams ) shows abilities that makes his owner mr . martin ( sam neill ) very curious . 
andrew is interested in art and music , he " enjoys " making clocks , which clearly shows that he has genuine emotions . 
it shows out that because of a small failure in the " electrical circuits " and " positronic brain " andrew has accidentally gained a soul . 
this makes him unique and his evil creators worried . 
then mr . martin decides to teach andrew all the things he wasn't programmed to do . 
soon andrew wants to leave the house in pursuit of freedom , destiny and love . 
this film can be described as a disney version of blade runner , a film that still shines as the biggest gem in the crown of science fiction . 
ever since that film , the subject of humanity still stands as one big controversy . 
what makes us human ? 
the thoughts ? 
the emotions ? 
is it possible to become human ? 
at what point can we say to a robot " now you are one of us " ? 
these are very tough questions that require a serious and thurral approach . 
it is obvious that columbus didn't take them very seriously . 
when you think about it , this film is not really meditating on the question " when is a robot no longer a machine , but a human being ? " , but tells a story about racial discrimination and lack of understanding . 
andrew is so complex and emotional from the very beginning that the audience immediately accepts him as a human being , and only the society has troubles with it . 
in other words , it is as far from reality as from the academy awards . 
further more , there are other annoying problems . 
to this day no serious filmmaker has dared to speculate about the future in more than 50 years from now . 
this has not been done for obvious reasons , because the filmmakers are well aware of the fact that they lack the knowledge and imagination to perform such a difficult task . 
columbus is the first to have crossed that line . 
the result is , as you might imagine , primitive , unrealistic and incredibly disappointing effort . 
the world is simply frozen in time . 
neither the society , fashion , culture or values have changed over 200 years . 
mom is still working at the kitchen , doing the dishes . 
when you think back to the late 17th century and then compare it to the world we live in today , you'll see a slightly bigger difference . 
i am not saying that everything should change . 
it is unlikely that the human rights will change , but it's even more unlikely that there will not be any progress in science , technology and fashion . 
i suppose it's possible to watch this as a some sort of bizarre fairytale , but it's really hard . 
robin williams is hidden behind c and speaking in a robotic way . 
as always he does a decent job , as does sam neill . 
but it doesn't really matter . 
it is the sentimentality and length that turns this picture into a tiresome experience . 
pretty much like last year's " meet joe black " , this is a primitive and unresolved story which is presented with a splendor and professionalism that it doesn't deserve . 
great actors and a talented crew have worked hard to achieve something that will be instantly forgotten . 
when isaac asimov wrote this story , the future seemed far away and magical . 
everything seemed possible . 
now is the future of asimov's time , and we know that it is not as magical and perfect as it seemed a long time ago . 
for the same reasons that the young generation of today can not be amazed by julius verne's " 20 000 leagues under the sea " , so can't we accept this story as a potential reality . 
let us hope that next year's " a . i . " 
will be more rewarding . 
in the continuation of warner brother's franchise , joel schumacher has successfully killed this cash cow . 
what makes this film such a grand disappointment is the tremendous line up of talented people involved with the film . 
avika goldsman's screenplay is such a cluttered mess that there is no suspense built from one scene to another . 
this coming on the heals of such a marvelously written project as " the client " is such a shock that it gives rise to thoughts that the latter film was a fluke . 
situations are developed and executed with no thought of reason other that to get the characters from one point to another . 
this is most glaringly brought to point by the appearance of alicia silverstone's batgirl , who just happens to be alfred's niece . 
the story of dr . victor freeze is told almost completely in dialogue as an afterthought . 
while working on a cure for a tragic decease contracted by his wife , dr . freeze is injured during a cryogenic procedure , and becomes a man who can only survive in a sub zero environment . 
now of course he has become a terrorist intent on turning the world into a frozen planet where only he can live . 
now the logic of that little sub-plot escapes me . 
if mr . freeze wanted to find a cure for his wife and bring her back from the brink of death , why would he want to have her live in a world with no warmth . 
this is indeed a cold hearted man . 
the development of poison ivy is no less contradictory . 
she wants to breed a form of plant life that can defend itself like an animal . 
she joins with mr . freeze in his plan to start a new ice age , destroying all animal life , therefore giving her plant creations no reason to have the defense mechanism she had been trying to breed into them . 
the characters have no logic . 
batman of course is no longer the dark knight of the earlier films . 
now that he has an adoptive son in burt ward / robin , bruce wayne is trying to be a father figure , constantly spouting out homilies about family and relationships , while at the same time not really having any . 
george clooney tries in vain to keep from rolling his eyes while reciting the dialogue given him . 
to say that his performance is workman-like is to be generous . 
his best performances are still on " e . r . " . 
bruce wayne has the most unromantic evening with his girlfriend ( played by elle macpherson ) , that it brings into question bruce's latent homosexuality . 
there is no spark and no passion ( as there was for nicole kidman's psychologist in " batman forever " ) between bruce and anyone other than alfred . 
and even that relationship is very reserved . 
robin comes off less charismatic that in the last film in the series . 
now he's just a spoiled kid . 
in " batman forever " , burt ward wanted to be batman's partner and friend . 
now , robin is suffering from ego deficiency . 
robin's attraction for poison ivy is not believable , except for a boy around the age of 15 . 
his later flirtation with batgirl smacks of incest , even though they are not related in a traditional sense . 
chris o'donnell , once considered a rising star , successfully burns up on reentry with this performance . 
his robin needs nothing more than a good spanking . 
the less said about alicia silverstone's performance the better . 
this talented young actress reads her lines with all the aplomb of a dubbing actor for a godzilla film . 
she was cast strictly for her commercial value and she knew it . 
this brings us to the villains . 
arnold scharzenegger walks through his part with all the concern of someone waiting for payday . 
the most rediculous scene is during mr . freeze's imprisonment . 
the guards are at least a foot taller that arnold and yet fall at his hand in one of the most unbelievable fights scenes caught on film . 
it's almost as ludicrous as seeing michael jackson as a gang member . 
umu thurman struts and coos her way through her part , showing a growing discomfort with her sex symbol status . 
her poison ivy has all the come hither sex appeal of may west in " sextette " ( 1978 ) . 
the only performances worthy of notice are pat hingle and michael gough . 
these two seasoned veterans carry their scenes with a dignity sorely lacking from the rest of the film . 
without going through the intricacies of the plot , there is one question that always comes to mind with this series ( except for the first " batman " ) , and that is how do these super villains manage to hire so many thugs only to abandon them at the final reel . 
mr . freeze is introduced with a team of hockey playing hoodlums that seem to have stepped out of an old kiss music video . 
every villain ( even the minor ones ) have to have a look , no one can be an individual with day glow paint on their face or some sort of elaborate costume . 
with this film , warner brothers has succeeded in retrograding the series back to it's tv incarnation . 
the only thing missing from the action scenes are the superimposed titles detailing the pows ! , 
gwaaaa's , and clang's associated with the old series . 
you almost wonder if william dozier , producer of the tv series is collecting royalties from this film . 
the special effects ( by john dykstra ) and production design ( by barbara ling ) are the primary stars of this film . 
and it is a case of extravagance in the pursuit of nothing . 
every set , from ivy's lair , the batcave , to freeze's hideout is set with enough neon and fiberglass to keep the epa in paperwork for years to come . 
there is no one realistic set or set piece in the film . 
everything is set for maximum exposure . 
the special effects have that strange cartoon look that most rushed cgi effects have . 
there are homage thrown in by dykstra and his team to gene warren and his work on " the time machine " ( the growing plant scene ) but these scenes are so wroth with glaring color and art that they are almost obscured . 
joel schumacher has directed the film with no flair . 
camera angles are poorly chosen rehashing set ups from the old tv series . 
master shots pepper the action scenes , destroying any flow of kinetic quality they may have had . 
mr . schumacher is a good director . 
one just has to look back on the films " the lost boys " , " cousins " ( an underrated film ) and " the client " to know that . 
but " batman and robin " comes off as a mated made for tv movie . 
the film has no style of individuality . 
it is the cinematic equivalent to jell-o , pretty to look at , but empty . 
it is unfortunate that this film , even with it's surprisingly strong box office has succeeded in doing what warner's thought tim burton would do with the franchise . 
kill it . 
joel schumacher's " batman & robin " is loud , colorful , action packed , and ultimately . . 
boring . 
stars . 
long ago , films were constructed of strong dialogue , original characters , memorable plot points , and solid acting . 
one of the best examples that hollywood now completely ignore these qualities is found in the new film where the heart is . 
this opus about the power of love and the redemption of family follows the tragic , and i mean tragic , life of novalee nation ( natalie portman ) . 
hitting the road with her hick , guitar-playing boyfriend in a rusted-out gm , novalee dreams of the blue skies of bakersfield and sipping chocolate milk beneath a plastic umbrella with her unborn baby , due in a month . 
stopping off at a nearby wal-mart for a quick rest , novalee's boyfriend decides to take off and leaves her there . 
novalee then decides to secretly hole up in the wal-mart ( because she's not the brightest bulb in the stagelights ) . 
a wacky librarian ( keith david ) comes to her rescue when she goes into labor one night while she is camped in the outdoors section of the store . 
then the she moves in with a family , befriends everyone in town -- including ashley judd's character ( who has five kids and still can work part-time as a nurse ) -- fights off religious freaks , survives a tornado , breaks the heart of the wacky librarian that saved her , receives an inheritance , builds a martha stewart-esque house , becomes an award-winning photographer , and manages to always look like she stepped out of a cosmo shoot , all while not once doing anything with her kid . 
this film is terrible . 
the directing is awful : it seems director matt williams had an index card with six angles written on it and used every one of them , over and over and over again . 
we get pathetic and ugly acting by natalie portman , who can do good work . 
a disjointed pacing of key scenes and a time structure so confusing that it would throw steve prefontaine off . 
a subplot that actually validates the actions of the boyfriend who abandoned novalee in the wal-mart parking lot . 
an embarrassing display of emotions by the characters , making the audience ill . 
taking two great comedic screenwriters , babaloo mandel and lowell ganz , and forcing them to write drama on par with oprah's book club . 
altogether , it has the feeling of being trapped at home , watching a very bad television mini-series and wishing it to end , only the remote is broken . 
however , the main problem with the film is that it never answers the most poignant question brought up : where is the heart ? 
no one ever seems to find it in this piece of junk . 
stars : armand assante ( mike hammer ) , barbara carrera ( dr . 
charlotte bennett ) , laurene landon ( velda ) , alan king ( charles kalecki ) , geoffrey lewis ( joe butler ) , paul sorvino ( detective pat chambers ) , judson scott ( charles hendricks ) , barry snider ( romero ) , julia barr ( norma childs ) / mpaa rating : r / review : 
in the 1982 updating of mickey spillane's 1947 novel " i , the jury , " hard-boiled detective mike hammer is a vietnam vet who drives a shiny bronze trans am , dresses like don johnson in " miami vice " with less pastels , and has sworn off alcohol . 
however , he still smokes his lucky strikes , detests all forms of authority , and kills at a whim . 
beyond that , the updated film retains little or no resemblance to the original pulpy page-turner by spillane , probably the most infamous and often reviled of all mystery writers . 
the movie starts off with a bang : a howler of an opening credits sequence that is a cheap steal from the james bond series , complete with cheesy graphics and an overbearing jazz score by bill conti ( " rocky " ) . 
after that , the movie and the book begin the same , with the murder of jack williams ( frederick downs ) , a one-armed detective and hammer's best friend . 
hammer declares that he will seek vengeance for jack's death , and with the help of his devoted secretary , the blond and shapely velda ( laurene landon ) , and the alternately friendly / antagonistic police chief pat chambers ( paul sorvino ) , he is immediately on the killer's trail . 
here the movie splits completely from the book , and dives into a convoluted and improbable tale of government conspiracy and mind control tactics involving the mafia , the cia , one of hammer's vietnam vet buddies , and a kinky sex clinic . 
many of the same characters from the book appear in the movie , but they take on slightly different roles . 
for instance , charles kalecki ( alan king ) , a numbers runner and narcotics dealer in the book , turns into a suave mob boss . 
and , more importantly , hammer's suspicious love interest , charlotte bennett ( barbara carrera ) , morphs from a run-of-the-mill psychiatrist into the coordinator and founder of the sex clinic . 
 " i , the jury " is one of several cinematic renditions of spillane's books ( including a 1953 version which was made in 3-d ) , but this film differs from those earlier versions in one major way : it includes all of the sex and violence spillane wrote about that could never be given screen treatment due to hollywood's production code . 
although this takes the 1982 version of " i , the jury " closer to the core of the original subject matter , it is in this aspect that the film received the most criticism , because it took this new license to extremes that many argued surpassed what was in the book . 
rest assured , the movie not only includes a great deal of nudity , but it is thoroughly violent , especially toward women . 
it features one woman having her neck slashed , a set of twins forced to strip before being stabbed to death by a psychotic sexual deviant programmed by the cia ( judson scott ) , and another woman shot point-blank in the belly by hammer himself . 
no one would deny that spillane's writing has a definite misogynistic nature , but the movie seems to take it a step further by giving it such glorious screen treatment ; its constant equation of sex and violence , much of which is played with the intention of being erotic , is quite unsettling . 
it's no surprise that the movie , like the book , fades to black with a dead woman on the floor . 
 " i , the jury " had a troubled production and was not well-supported by the studio that made it , which is one explanation why it didn't do well in theaters and many people have forgotten that it was ever made . 
the script was written by larry cohen , who is best known for his creatively cheesy but nonetheless effective monster movies , like " it's alive " ( 1974 ) and its two sequels , " q " ( 1981 ) , and " the stuff " ( 1985 ) . 
cohen wrote the script thinking he was going to helm the project as well , but he was yanked from the director's chair after only a week's worth of shooting because he was already $100 , 000 over budget . 
he was quickly replaced by richard t . heffron , who has worked for the last three decades on a handful of undistinguished movies and dozens of television projects . 
heffron was obviously brought in not for his talent , but because he could make the movie rapidly and efficiently . 
it shows in the final product . 
cohen had personal interest in the updated version of hammer , but heffron has none . 
he shot the movie quickly and clumsily , and although some scenes ring true , most of them are flat , trite , and invariably dull . 
the movie features numerous car chases , shoot-outs , and stunts , but heffron's background in television is the dominant tone ; despite the graphic violence and full-frontal nudity , " i , the jury , " takes on the air of a made-for-tv quickie , with no real punch or depth . 
but the problems in " i , the jury " run deeper than the technical . 
the central fault in this updating is mike hammer , whose character was lost in the shuffle while updating from the fifties to the eighties . 
because spillane wrote all his hammer mysteries in the first person , hammer's character is central to the tale because all the events are filtered through his persona . 
we never really get that impression in the movie -- there is no first-person voice-over narration and some scenes don't have hammer in them at all . 
consequently , a great deal of the texture of spillane's storytelling is lost . 
the period updating turns out to be a detrimentally bad idea because much of hammer's moral code is thrown to the wind . 
despite his characterization as a hard-nosed , violent , misogynistic killer , hammer always stuck fervently to his own moral code . 
the title itself , " i , the jury , " refers to his anti-establishment notion of being his own law . 
unlike private eyes who seek out the bad guys and then turn them over the police , hammer both pursues the criminal and exacts the punishment . 
in this way , he can be seen as " above the law , " but he still adheres strictly to her own personal code of conduct , his own morality . 
the movie forgoes that aspect of his character , and hammer comes off not only as amoral in society's terms , but in any terms , especially his own . 
if anything , hammer always had his professionalism , but the movie does away with that in the first three minutes by showing him rolling in the sack with the wife of a client who had paid him to find out if that wife was being unfaithful . 
maybe the scene was intended for laughs , but it only cheapens hammer's character and is , by all accounts , a lousy way to start the movie . 
the blame for hammer's character can't be laid on assante's shoulders , because despite some unnecessary marlon brandon-like mumbling , he delivers a fine performance . 
spillane never once described hammer's physical attributes in any of the dozen books in which he appeared , so any actor could conceivably portray him . 
of course , because of the lack of written description , those who have read spillane's books will have a strong personal notion of what hammer looks like , and therefore almost any screen incarnation will somehow fall short of expectations ( spillane , who played the character himself in 1963's " the girl hunters , " is generally considered the best of the film hammers ) . 
the rest of actors are most un-noteworthy . 
with the exceptions of alan king and paul sorvino , everyone who appeared in " i , the jury " were up-and-comers who basically went nowhere . 
many of them ended up working in television ( like carrera , who had a short stint on " dallas " in the mid-eighties ) , which only adds to the made-for-tv atmosphere of the film . 
maybe someday , someone will manage to get the right elements together and make an effective film rendition of a spillane book , but this is certainly not it . 
nostalgia for the 70s continues , as we see a revival of one of the decade's greatest achievements : the marijuana comedy . 
however half baked doesn't quite run with all its brain cells , and will make you appreciate the questionable talents of cheech and chong all the more . 
the plot follows the misadventures of four ne'er-do-well stoners . 
there's the group's unofficial leader , thurgood ( david chappelle ) , scarface ( guillermo diaz ) , brian ( jim breuer ) , and kenny ( harland williams ) . 
kenny gets into trouble , when , while on a munchie run , feeds his snack foods to a diabetic police horse . 
when the animal keels over , he finds himself accused of killing a police officer , and facing a $1 , 000 , 000 bail . 
his friends promise to raise money for a 10% bail bond , but have no idea how . 
that is , until thurgood stumbles upon a stash of pharmaceutical marijuana being tested at the company where he works as a janitor . 
soon the three guys are dealing dope to raise funds , while avoiding the cops and rival dealer sampson simpson ( clarence williams iii ) . 
for a comedy , the film is pretty humorless . 
not that it doesn't try . . . it's 
just that the comic setups are obvious and the payoffs nearly all fall flat . 
the four leads are nearly all playing the same character . 
only williams stands out ( while still performing on the level of his humor-free comedy rocket man ) , but that is because he's imprisoned throughout most of the film , giving a much needed change of pace ( but mostly swapping one set of obvious gags for another ) . 
to help out , the film is packed full of cameos . 
steven wright , tommy chong , janeane garofalo , willie nelson , snoop doggy dogg , and jon stewart all make appearances at one point or another . 
none of them work , beyond the simple " hey , that's _____ " level . 
in fact the funniest work in the film comes from chappelle . 
not as his bland pothead lead , but in his second role , as a pot-obsessed rapper , sir smokealot . 
granted , it's pretty much a one-joke role , and there aren't a ton of laughs . . . but this film needs every one it can scrape up . 
to top it off , and in a move contrasting with the tone of the rest of the film , thurgood is given a love interest , mary jane ( rachel true ) . 
her role is that of the public service announcement : to inform us why doing drugs ( including pot ) is wrong . 
her character seems fabricated merely as a defense to the " your film promotes the use of drugs " camp . 
the film would have been better off by sticking with the " rebel " tone it so eagerly tries to claim . 
yet , in the end , it doesn't really matter . 
watching the film clean and sober , you are bound to recognize how truly awful it is . 
i saw this film on christmas day expecting an upbeat comedy . 
boy was i in for a christmas dissapointment ! 
after an hour of the movie , i was ready to change rooms-into another theater ! 
read on to see what i have to say . . . . 
four rooms : 
starring : tim roth , jennifer beals , antonio banderas , quentin tarantino , valeria golino , madonna , bruce willis , marisa tomei , alicia witt , lili taylor , and ione skye . 
possible stars ) 
 " four rooms " was supposed to be one of the biggest hits of the year . 
key word here : " supposed . " 
four of the biggest directors in hollywood : quentin tarantino , robert rodriguez , alexander rockwell , and alison anders were all directing one big film with a big and popular cast . 
i guess it was all just too much because this turned out to be the biggest flop of the year and it could of been great . 
the plot : it's new years eve and it's a bellboy's first day on the job . 
he encounters many mysterious and kinky hotel guests as he tries to handle all his own problems . 
tarantino told his directors this plot , and each of them wrote a script . 
it turned out each of them had written a dark comedy . 
anders wrote and directed the tale about a coven of witches ( madonna , valeria golino , alicia witt , and ione skye ) , which was the worst one out of all of them . 
the second room ( jennifer beals ) was better , but lacking in plot . 
this room was about a man who accuses every man of sleeping with his wife . 
the third room ( antonio banderas ) was the best roomm , about two rambunctous kids that trash a hotel suite . 
the final one ( tarantino , willis ) was about a movie star wanting the bellboy to chop off someone's finger . 
the movie was just plain trash . 
there was nothing here that even makes up a quality film . 
it was not funny , and i didn't hear one laugh in the theater throughout the whole film . 
tim roth is horrible as the bumbling and mumbling bellboy , and he ruins every joke in the film . 
the supporting cast loses meaning to the word support and the only mentionable actors/actresses are antonio banderas and jennifer beals . 
marisa tomei appears in a stupid cameo role . 
this movie is the worst film of the year and the film could have been great , perhaps like a more upbeat " plaza suite , " but it wasn't . 
as trashy as it was , some people will call it classic . 
do you call a man chopping off a finger with madonna's chest showing a classic film ? 
look for more of ken's kritic korner coming soon ! 
please check the newsgroups under the movie reviews section for updated reviews . 
p . s . " four rooms " made number 1 on my top ten worst list of 1995 . 
anna and the king is at least the fourth film adaptation of margaret landon's fact based novel the king and i , and it's big , expensive and soulless . 
though good-looking , its lavish sets , fancy costumes and luscious cinematography can do little to compensate for the emotional wasteland that is peter krikes and steve meerson's script . 
so much money was spent on pretty pictures that they forgot to actually make the movie interesting . 
this is jodie foster's first movie since the jaw-droppingly brilliant contact came out more than two years ago and it isn't the best choice to show off her acting chops . 
she's trapped in the stoic role of anna leonowens , the uptight , widowed british schoolteacher who comes to siam ( now thailand ) with her son to instruct the king's ( chow yun-fat ) son in the ways of the west ( because " the ways of england are the ways of the world ) . 
the king likes her so much he puts her in charge of educating the whole royal family ( 58 kids with 10 more in the way ; impressive , no ? ) . 
the eldest prince is none too happy about this ( " father , have i offended you in some way ? 
why do you punish me with imperialist schoolteacher ? ) , but soon gets to know anna and her stern- mother-who-loves-you personality better and comes to like her . 
meanwhile , siam comes under attack from the neighboring british colony of burma . 
the king and his close advisors suspect that this is britain's doing which arouses suspicion in siam , putting anna in an uncomfortable position . 
she is not sure what to make of this and seems to herself suspect british involvement in the crisis but works to diffuse the king's prejudices . 
he , though self-righteous as ever , can't help but be influenced by the eloquent anna and they slowly , quietly , develop affections for each other . 
there is a scene in the middle of anna and the king where one of the king's younger daughters dies . 
it's your classic deathbed scene , with the girl's mournful eyes staring at her father , who tries only semi- successfully to maintain his composure . 
anna then comes in and cries a bit . 
the sequence was there for a purpose : to evoke a strong emotional response from the viewer . 
i'm usually a sucker for such scenes and yet this time , i was just sitting there , my emotions untouched . 
this remains true through all of the movie which remains emotionally barren . 
we never develop connections to the characters ; never given a reason to care . 
this ludicrously long epic was directed by andy tennant , whose last film was ever after , one of my favorites of 1998 . 
i do not doubt tennant's ability to put together a decent movie , but anna and the king , aside from being psychologically inept is also technologically deficient . 
the sets and scenery are gorgeous , but the camerawork does nothing to convey its grandeur . 
even terrence malick managed to do more with flora and fauna in his otherwise abysmal the thin red line than tennant can muster from $75 million worth of props and a shoot in malaysia . 
we feel like the camera is restricted to its immediate point of view ; there are no wide tracking shots or sweeping zooms to fill us with larger-than-life awe . 
i liked both foster and yun-fat , who give entertaining if not terribly involving performances in the two lead roles . 
foster's generally stoic persona serves her well here , as she is playing a reserved , formal and rather underdeveloped character . 
yun-fat is especially effective , perfectly conveying the king of siam's sangfroid permeated with violent outbursts . 
what does anna and the king in is its inability to involve the viewer in its characters and situations . 
the cast is great , the director is talented , and the budget is lavish , but this ill-advised remake of the classic rogers and hammerstein movie is unable to utilize any of those things to form a compelling whole . 
this is an emotionless costume epic . 
robin hood : men in tights is another mel-brooks-produced film in the classic tradition of movies like blazing saddles and young frankenstein . 
mel brooks is well known for his comic look at regular life , his fast paced dialogue and sharp wit . 
unfortunately , robin hood : men in tights has none of the easy going humor of blazing saddles , none of the fun acting of young frankenstein , is devoid of the charm of spaceballs , and is even lacking the good , solid dialogue of history of the world . 
it is , in short , one of the worst movies i have seen mel brooks , or anybody else , produce . 
the plot borrows heavily from the well-received kevin costner movie of last year , robin hood : prince of thieves . 
this is not surprising in and of itself , and could have been used to great comic effect , mainly by parodying scenes from the orginal movie . 
mel brooks does not take advantage of this , however , and uses the film to launch several ideas into the air , none of which connect and none of which are explained later on . 
the movie's scenes could be shuffled around in any order and one would be hard pressed to notice . 
cary elwes , of princess bride fame , plays robin of loxley , a man who was captured in the crusades , fighting with king richard . 
he escapes and , joining with a man named achoo ( i am sure you can see the obvious joke ) , fights in england to reclaim his name and the throne for richard , which has been captured by evil prince john , played by funny comic richard lewis . 
he also tries for the love of maid marian and attempts to overthrow the evil " sheriff of rottingham " . 
a good adventure plot that is sadly unused . 
elwes and lewis are both excellent comics , but the dialogue in the movie is simply excruciating . 
neither actor has any good words to work with , and the lines simply aren't funny , nor believable . 
perhaps the worst example of this is when the group of merry men encounter a man playing a macaulay culkin clone from the hit movie home alone . 
this particular scene is so out of place and so badly acted , and followed by so many other scenes of equal miserable ideas , that i really felt like leaving the theatre . 
much of the audience continued to look at their watches throughout , and some left the theatre . 
chuckles were few and far between , and they mostly dealt with visual jokes ( such as an old , beaten up horse from " rent-a-wreck " ) then from any dialogue whatsoever . 
scenes that could have been classics , such as the archery contest , are ruined by poor acting . 
perhaps the largest problem with the movie is that it is simply offensive . 
the basic plot , that robin has received a key that will unlock the chastity belt of maid marian , is not witty nor funny . 
mel brooks as a circumcision-giving rabbi is also offensive to me and others in the audience ( not all jewish , either ) . 
the movie simply tries to hard trying to be funny and by and large fails . 
the addition of a blind man who stumbles around , falling off cliffs , walking into ledges and being a general buffoon could have had some humorous potential , but is also made terribly offensive . 
the only reason to see this movie is the surprise actor at the end who plays king richard . 
he is well worth waiting for , if you can stand an hour and half of unfunny dialogue , excruciating visual humor , old puns , ancient jokes and bad acting . 
if you can't , don't even bother watching this miserable film . 
with his successful books and movies , michael crichton is doing well . 
with early successes with westworld ( 1973 ) and coma ( 1978 ) , and recent films such as jurassic park ( 1993 ) , his films have been entertaining . 
however , he seems to taken a wrong turn somewhere with sphere . 
this $100 million mess by good director barry levison ( disclosure ) is dull , long winded , and a huge disappointment . 
considering the huge budget , the all star cast , and a story by crichton , sphere is majorly disappointing . 
the film opens with norman goodman ( hoffman ) , a psychologist who thinks he is visiting an airplane crash to console the survivors . 
however , when he arrives , he his told by supervisor barnes ( peter coyote ) that he is actually investigating an spacecraft . 
along with goodman is mathematician harry adams ( jackson ) , biologist beth halperin ( stone ) and ted fielding ( liev schrieber . ) 
they investigate the spaceship , find a massive sphere inside , meet an alien intelligence called jerry , and basically weird crap happens . 
unfortunately , something went wrong along the way with sphere . 
the film starts off entertaining enough , but throughout this very long movie , it just gets sillier and sillier . 
the film jaunts along from scene to scene , never fully explaining what is going on . 
the actors and directing don't help , either . 
hoffman is on autopilot ( and almost seems embarrassed ) throughout the movie , churning out dull lines , and probably wondering what the hell he is doing in this movie . 
stone is useless , displaying no emotion , and fails to convince the audience that she has any feelings for hoffman . 
the only person who seems to be having fun in this movie is jackson , who's funny as the mathematician who slowly goes crazy and entering the sphere . 
but he's hardly in it , and by the end of the film he is just as dull as hoffman and stone . 
the same goes for peter coyote , who hams it up as the officer , but is then killed off halfway through . 
the director , barry levinson , who directed the better crichton adaptation disclosure ( 1994 ) messes up with the drama and the action . 
the drama scenes are , quite frankly , boring , and the action scenes suffer from overkill , with levison throwing the camera all over the place ( much like the godawful speed 2 , 1997 ) 
the writing doesn't help much , either . 
although crichton is great with plots , he's terrible with dialogue , and practically every line in sphere is a dud . 
the speech is too simple , i was hoping it would be a bit more intelligent . 
practically every line is just stating the obvious . 
none of it is smart . 
also , where the hell did the budget go ? 
the sphere itself is impressive , and there's a few nice special effect shots , but where the $100 million went is anyone's guess . 
there's a giant squid attack in the picture , but not once does the audience see the squid , even though the film has a massive budget . 
i assume the picture was trying to build up tension by not showing the squid , and if handled correctly it probably would . 
but the whole scene is done badly , and i was just hoping we could see the stupid squid . 
finally , the film has no idea what genre to be . 
levison can't handle his own plot . 
it leaps from hokey sci-fi , to horror , and finally the shining/event horizon psychological thriller . 
and , of course , the film is very much like the abyss ( 1988 ) , although in it's defense , crichton did write sphere before the abyss was released ( and is far superior to this rubbish . ) 
it's not all that bad though . 
the plot is all right , there's a few jump scenes ( although nothing very scary ) and there's the occasionally interesting bit . 
but overall , sphere is a big waste of some fine talent , a lot of money , and a potentially good movie . 
not really worth seeing . 
overall rating= review by david wilcock 
director luis mandoki's last film was the superb , serious 1994 drama " when a man loves a woman , " but his luck has ultimately run out with his latest picture , " message in a bottle , " which is the worst type of romance , a movie that tugs so relentlessly and violently at the heartstrings that it miraculously manages to dry out your eyes rather than tear them up . 
everything that occurs can be telegraphed way in advance since this same type of story has been done many times before---and much better---so there's an absence of suspense , and the film ultimately moves at such a very , very deliberate pace , as if it is trying to make great , " meaningful " statements and plot developments , that it just becomes a tedious bore to sit through . 
 " message in a bottle " begins with theresa osborne ( robin wright penn ) , a single mother and researcher at the chicago tribune , whom finds a bottle washed up on shore as she is jogging one day . 
inside the bottle is an anonymous love letter addressed to a mystery woman named catherine , and theresa is so taken aback by its honesty and sweetness that she shows it around at her work and , to her objection , finds that her editor has placed the letter in the newspaper . 
soon , a heavy research is conducted to find out who wrote the letter based on the type of bottle and a ship logo on the top of the typed message , and after it is traced to a man named garrett blake , theresa finds herself traveling to the outer banks , a boating town in north carolina , to find out the specifics of the message . 
of course , garrett turns out to be a handsome , rugged man around theresa's age and played by kevin costner . 
she is immediately charmed by him , but hesitant to unveil the truth of why she is there , and finds that catherine was garrett's late wife who died a few years earlier . 
do you think you know where this is headed ? 
most likely you do , and i wouldn't call it giving away anything to say that by the picture's end , the movie has fallen into deep , artificial melodrama that i didn't buy for a second . 
if there are any positive things to say about " message in a bottle , " it is that the performances by robin wright penn and paul newman , as garrett's stubborn , but loving father , are far above par to be in such a wasteful , " shaggy dog " love story , and that the cinematography by caleb deschanel takes great advantage of the beautiful eastern coast , and paints chicago as an equally alluring city . 
meanwhile , costner has yet to redeem himself for some of the less-than-stellar films that he has made recently . 
it seems that with such bad luck , he wouldn't want to make another movie set near water , but here he is again with one of the main , and most ridiculous , centerpieces set on a storm-swept sea . 
the other actors are all , sadly , wasted , including illeana douglas , an underused actress who seems to always get stuck with the " friend " roles , here playing penn's confidante and co-worker at the tribune . 
the first half of " message in a bottle " plays like a hum-drum , trite television movie for the lifetime channel , as theresa spends a great deal of time " getting to know " garrett , with dialogue that is not the least bit stimulating or entertaining . 
usually , i am the type of person to practically salivate over dialogue-laden sequences since the film is no doubt trying to develop the characters and their relationships , but here it all rang with a resounding falseness since the dialogue felt " written , " and not as if people were really " talking . " 
when the main characters of a film have very little of interest to say to each other , and are not particularly interesting themselves , you know immediately that you are in trouble . 
i swear that while watching " message in a bottle , " i felt as if i had just read the screenplay in its entirety before arriving at the theater ( heck , in actuality i'm not even familiar to the novel this is based on , by nicholas sparks ) . 
always one step ahead of the characters , the movie ran so closely and tightly to the constraints of the tried-and-true hollywood melodrama , the film strip often seemed to almost be in danger of tearing . 
nobody wins prizes for guessing that garrett will eventually find out theresa's secret , and that several obstacles will come within their ways of living happily ever after . 
this same exact problem occurred in last year's very , very similar ( watch this , and you will realize just how similar i mean ) meg ryan-nicolas cage romantic drama , " city of angels . " 
although theresa is deeply touched by the " heartfelt " letter that she finds in the bottle , perhaps the filmakers might have been better off finding a message in a bottle of their own , preferably before filming began . 
it should have read , " memo to screenwriters : use you brain ! " 
i remember really enjoying this movie when i saw it years ago . 
i guess my memory really sucks . 
there is very , very little that is funny in caddyshack . 
the laughs are few , and far between , and what there are really aren't that great . 
caddyshack , as the name implies , more or less centers on one young caddy working at an exclusive country club . 
michael o'keefe plays said caddy . 
why they cast this unknown , fairly untalented actor in the lead role is completely beyond me . 
the movie doesn't seem to have a real plot , just a series of scenes that are little more than opportunities for the rest of the cast to mug at the camera . 
the only real story , if you can call it that , was a subplot involving the mentally disturbed greens keeper , bill murray , who is having his own private little war against a gopher who is ruining the course . 
most of the marginal laughs come from rodney dangerfield and ted knight mugging and overacting for the camera -- with painfully limited success . 
bill murray is slightly amusing in places , but fairly wasted . 
the biggest waste of all is chevy chase , who didn't even crack a smile on my face with his character's lame zen-like approach to golfing . 
there are a few decent scenes involving the interaction between dangerfield and knight , but they are far too infrequent to carry the movie . 
i guess that's what you get for basing a story around an unknown kid . 
i'm not sure what the writers of this thing were thinking of , but i really think it was something far removed from comedy as they were putting pen to paper . 
nothing about this movie works . 
it wouldn't have taken a genius to figure out that this thing wasn't going to fly . 
most of the scenes just couldn't possibly be funny . 
it's as if the writers where off in their own little brain damaged world . 
i'm sure scenes involving chevy chase and his oneness with the golf ball were supposed to be funny . 
in reality , they were painfully embarrassing to watch . 
there is a scene at the club pool where all the caddies go wild for the " hot babe " of the movie walking by in her bikini . 
olive oil would have filled out this swimsuit better than this girl . 
everything about this movie was just completely implausible as far as the comedy was concerned . 
maybe if you were drunk out of you mind or high off some sort of illegal narcotic this thing might be funny . 
but for the rest of us , stay the hell away from caddyshack . 
tommy lee jones chases an innocent victim around america who is trying to prove that she did not kill her spouse . 
the fugitive ? 
not quite ? this is the plot for double jeopardy , another fugitive copycat without the action , excitement , and good acting that the original had . 
there are other slight differences besides one movie being bad and the other good ; this time tommy lee jones plays a parole officer not a us marshall , clever huh ? 
oh and the fugitive ashley judd was framed by her own husband ( bruce greenwood ) who needed to collect two million dollars in life insurance money not a one armed man . 
both movies are on video . 
make the wise choice and pick the fugitive . 
there are so many flaws in double jeopardy , it is laughable . 
while serving time in prison , libby parsons ( judd ) discovers that she can never be charged for committing the same crime twice . 
learning that her husband is still alive , she decides to serve her time in prison , find him , retrieve her son , and kill her husband if necessary . 
when the strict parole officer travis lehman ( jones ) stands in her way , libby decides to break the rules ( who knows why ? ) and continue her plan , despite the fact that if she gets caught , she's going back to jail . 
director bruce beresford spends way too much time trying to convince the audience that libby misses her son . 
every other scene , we are given a shot of libby staring and crying at his picture . 
in an action movie like this , valuable time wasted on these shots takes away more opportunities for libby to get up and do something . 
all that is needed in this type of movie is a short scene in which libby tells herself or a friend " i miss my son . " 
nothing more , nothing less . 
dr . kimble of the fugitive didn't look at one picture of his dead wife , his primary concern was to save himself . 
libby at times shows this same determination but not nearly enough . 
ashley judd and bruce greenwood both are excellent actors but if they continue to do movies like this , they will be typecast for the rest of their careers , kind of like their doomed co-star tommy lee jones . 
winning an oscar for the fugitive must have convinced jones that audiences will never get tired of his i-do-my-job-whether-they-are-innocent-or-guilty roles . 
people still pay to see his movies and he makes plenty of money so i guess he was right . 
though i don't think he will win another oscar again . 
the ultimate mistake in the script is what eventually becomes of libby parsons . 
even if she was excused for disobeying her parole officer , the number of other crimes she commits while on the run are too numerous to count . 
burglary , assault , grand theft auto are some of libby's slipups . 
the message of the movie is you can break all of the small laws as long as you're innocent of the major crime . 
hopefully criminals won't use double jeopardy as a reference in court for why they are innocent . 
that would just be plain stupid . 
while i am not fond of any writer's use of cheap , easy puns , i am not completely above using them myself when the situation merits it ( witness my review of _pecker_ from a couple of issues ago ) . 
so here goes : the juvenile , college-set black comedy _dead_man_on_campus_ is dead on arrival . 
strait-laced med student josh ( tom everett scott , who manages to remain somewhat likable throughout ) 's blemish-free academic record breaks out into fs , thanks to the influence of his ever-partying roommate , cooper ( mark-paul gosselaar ) , who introduces josh to the sex- and booze-filled nights that come with university life . 
with the threat of losing an academic scholarship ( josh ) and a life cleaning toilets for his dad looming ( cooper ) , what are two good-hearted slackers to do ? 
easy--look for a loophole , which they find in the form of an unbelievable rule in the school charter that states that if a student's ( or students' ) roommate commits suicide , the surviving student ( s ) shall receive straight as . 
so instead of studying , josh and cooper attempt to seek out the most depressed student out there , move him into their dorm room , and drive him to suicide before the semester ends . 
director alan cohn and screenwriters michael traeger and mike white ( working from a story by anthony abrams and adam larson broder ) take their sweet time to build the head of steam that comes with josh and cooper's diabolical plot . 
until then , the usual boring cliches of college life ( booze , sex , more booze ) fill the time , which is made to feel longer by _saved_by_the_bell_ alumnus gosselaar's sitcom-bred mugging . 
that said , once cohn and company do build some comic momentum , they mishandle it . 
the introduction of the manic , psychotic cliff ( lochlyn munro ) , a potential roommate for josh and cooper , brings some demented life to the uninspired proceedings before being hastily written out in favor of two less interesting candidates : paranoid nerd buckley ( randy pearlstein ) and british death rocker matt ( corey page ) . 
one wishes that cliff would reappear , but , as they say , be careful what you wish for . 
not surprisingly , he does resurface , and it then becomes clear that this is a character that is best taken in a small dose ; almost immediately , his extended boorish and sociopathic antics loses its novelty . 
the same can be said about all of _dead_man_on_campus_ . 
whatever morbid appeal the far-fetched premise has quickly evaporates , and the self-absorbed characters , especially cooper , pretty much grate from the get-go . 
_dead_man_ doesn't grow tiresome ; it already _is_ once the clever opening titles are through . 
as it slogs along to a cheesy , happy-for-all-parties conclusion , _dead_man_ lives up to its title and then some--not only does the movie grow even more tired and die , it still insists on going on . . . 
like a zombie . 
boy , what a great movie ! ! 
keanu reeves and morgan freeman acting together , the director of the fugitive ( andrew davis ) back again to give us another thriller , and the beautiful rachel stealing beauty weisz thrown in to boot . 
how could this not be a blockbuster ? 
all die-hard keanu reeves fans , read on . 
ol " much ado about nothing " plays eddie kasalivich , a machinist studying at the university of chicago . 
to help pay for the rent , he takes on this job making the machinery for a hydrogen project being conducted by the university . 
by happy coincidence , he also happens to stumble on the solution to the final problem and thus is the only one who knows the key to performing this feat of miracle physics . 
this project holds great promise : taking hydrogen from water and giving out more energy than is put in . 
a potential solution to the earth's energy problems without the pollution cost . 
surely nobody could have any problems with that ? 
morgan freeman is paul shannon , the project's sponsor . 
he works for a very powerful organization that disagrees with the paternal project leader as to how quickly technology should be released to the public . 
he figures the world will disintegrate into anarchy if the results of the project are released too quickly . 
so he murders the project leader , blows up the project ( great but short scene here , sort of like a mini id4 city-devastation thing ) and tries to simulate the experiment at some other hi-tech hush-hush location . 
unfortunately , our intrepid machinist and an english physicist ( weisz ) manage to get away and now follows a fugitive-like chase using a not too dissimilar rehash of that movie script . 
this movie is just dying for a comparison with " the fugitive " . 
both movies use chicago as the main city and since the place doesn't change much , i guess we can't really blame the setting for the paucity of atmosphere . 
the trouble here is that where the fugitive had harrison ford and tommy lee jones , chain reaction only has keanu reeves and fred ward . 
credit to them , but we aren't really given much of a chance to empathise with the characters . 
where ford was able to work within the confines of the movie to evoke sympathy , eddie kasalivich just doesn9t seem very believeable and reeves' character is never given the time to develop . 
it might have been a better investment in film to give the characters more depth and spend less time on the chase sequences , which frankly , get quite boring after a while . 
harrison ford was " the man against the world . " 
he was alone in a world where he didn't know who to trust and it came across real well . 
in chain reaction , keanu reeves isn't alone . 
now that would be fine if the fleeing couple had some chemistry and could really portray some paranoia , vulnerability and confusion . 
we don't get this . 
we get him thinking he's still in speed , only now our sandra bullock has an english accent , probably doesn't drive a bus , and hardly contributes anything to the movie . 
the producers here probably thought , " hey , what if keanu and rachel don't hit it off too well ? 
let's rope in that morgan to help us out . " 
well , keanu and rachel didn't hit it off well on the screen , and most unfortunately , morgan freeman doesn't help much either . 
the only thing we come to really know of paul shannon is that he always has a full load of cigars in his cigar holder . 
it's not really his fault . 
once again , andrew davis just doesn't take the time to build his characters . 
someone must have convinced him that this time round , cinema dollars are best earned by making the movie run like a headless chicken . 
the flying inkpot rating system : * wait for the tv2 broadcast . 
 * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha ! 
 * * * pretty good , bring a friend . 
 * * * * amazing , potent stuff . 
 * * * * * perfection . 
see it twice . 
there are those of us who think of leslie nielsen as the bumbling , hapless straight man from the hysterical " naked gun " films , crack an immediate smile and forgive him of whatever wavering movie spoof he's committed himself to starring in since . 
the wavering movie spoofs , however , are less forgivable . 
to be fair , " wrongfully accused , " the send-up in question and nielsen's third parody since the last " gun , " isn't quite as excruciatingly humorless as his " dracula : dead and loving it " or " spy hard , " which is a mighty good thing . 
nielsen is still in tip-top comedic form , able as ever to deadpan his way through even the most horrible puns , but he really needs a screenplay that plays off his talents instead of relying on them , and he needs one very soon . 
 " wrongfully accused " meshes together the premises of " the fugitive " and " patriot games , " casting its always game star as ryan harrison ( get it ? ) , a master violinist who is drawn into an affair with a married temptress ( kelly le brock ) . 
she , however , sets harrison up to take the rap for the murder of her husband ( michael york ) - a crime actually committed by a one-armed , one-legged , one-eyed man ( aaron pearl ) . 
harrison is arrested , found guilty and sentenced to death , but escapes from a prison bus , of course , and then is pursued by a determined u . s . marshal named fergus falls ( richard crenna , unnecessarily riffing off of tommy lee jones' already smirky oscar-winning role ) . 
there's also a mystery brunette ( melinda mcgraw ) and an assassination subplot involving the u . n . secretary general , but like any of it matters . 
 " wrongfully accused " gets off to an assured start , with an in-concert nielsen , touted " lord of the violin " by bare-chested posters , pulling a jimi hendrix on his musical instrument as hundreds of tuxedo-clad mosh in front of the stage . 
nice touch . 
most of the scenes that follow , however , never top the opener . 
 ( hysterical exceptions : the mentos and " baywatch " goofs . ) 
movie parodies are crammed in at an almost-subliminal rate , but most are empty . 
when a giant snake lunges onto the screen and snatches a cast member a la " anaconda " or baseball players disappear into a " field of dreams " -esque cornfield , there's really nothing to laugh at . 
other moments , like an interlude in a fishing shop , are so unfocused that you're not sure what you're supposed to be laughing at . 
there seem to be more cheap references than frenzied send-ups here , so it's possible that director/writer pat proft , by bombarding the viewer with a careless mixture of the two , guarantees something is sure to stick . 
and what does stick sticks well , particularly the jabs at genre conventions like stylized flashbacks and hard-boiled dialogue , what those " naked gun " s ( which proft collaborated on ) did great ; these bits are so on-target that they allow you to remember " wrongfully accused " as an almost-halfway-there spoof instead of a lame-brained failure . 
the movie might have been cursed to begin with , opening fast on the heels of " mafia ! " , from proft colleague jim abrahams , and " baseketball , " from proft colleague david zucker , but it's a strong possibility that nobody is going to be accusing " wrongfully accused " of being nielsen's funniest . 
please don't mind this windbag letting off a bit of steam . . . i 
just want to warn all of y'all not to waste your hard-earned $$$ on anaconda . 
it's not even worth a 99-cent video rental . 
don't listen to ebert on this one ( he has no clue what he's talking about ! ) 
btw i accompanied my friend to this one because she was * required * to watch it on assignment ( she reviews movies for a local paper ) . 
now i'll actually back up my huffing and puffing . 
here goes : 
movie : anaconda rydain's bottom line : wait for it to come on usa up all night . 
even then , i doubt it's worth the price of jolt ( to help you stay up that late ! ) 
why do i hate anaconda ? 
let me count the ways . . . 
first of all , this movie gets way too many snake facts wrong . 
as an ophiophile ( snake lover ) , i can tell you that a ) anacondas would never reach a length of 40 feet , b ) they're scared of people , c ) cases of snakes eating adult humans are extremely rare because human shoulders are too wide to fit in a snake's mouth , and constrictor snakes don't kill what they can't eat , d ) people can outrun snakes with no trouble , especially heavy ones like anacondas , e ) if an anaconda did eat a human , it would need at least 6 months of sitting on its butt to digest the huge meal , therefore it couldn't run around gobbling up everybody else in the cast , and f ) snakes have no vocal cords , so they can't make funny squealing noises . 
whew . 
i was prepared to suspend reality if the movie would have been worth it . 
unfortunately , anaconda was about as suspenseful and exciting as watching paint peel . 
my friend and i even successfully predicted who would live at the end . 
anybody can tell the bad guy is going to die eventually . 
that was a pity because his character was one of the few reasons my friend and i didn't give up and fall asleep . 
he was the most likable character in the movie . 
who wouldn't enjoy somebody who looks like a deranged walt whitman ? 
anaconda did have its cute moments : arguments between ice cube's character and the british guy , for instance . 
however , those small flashes of wit were not worth the other hour and twenty-eight minutes of boring schlock . 
the writers had - and blew - a multitude of opportunities to insert funny lines . 
i was quite disappointed with a scene where a young guy tells a young lady that the jungle makes him horny . 
did she retort with a clever , ego-withering comeback ? 
of course not ! 
 " i'm trying to work ! " 
gee , that's even dumber than the crap comebacks i come up with . 
she could have told him to go find a knothole or something . . . 
 ; p but i will admit , there was just one scene where i was surprised at the outcome ( hint : it involves the evil guy and miss crap comebacks ) . 
as for the plot , i'm still trying to find one . 
this movie was basically an excuse to get a boatload of people into dangerous territory where they could get snarfed by ridiculous , computer-generated anacondas with the eyes and fangs of vipers and the faster-than-gravity downward acceleration of a harrier jet . 
 ( harrier snake ? ) 
not to mention instant digestion so they could go snarf countless other victims . 
the writers tried to throw in some sort of plot twist ( should i call it a plot knot because it made no sense ? ) in which the sick guy's g-friend kisses the evil dude and suddenly everybody hates said evil dude and starts trying to kill him . 
that was about as clear and understandable as mission : impossible . 
 ( if someone could explain that movie to me , i'd be most grateful ! 
all the old-guy double agents looked the same ! ! ) 
i wasn't inspired by the acting , save for the evil dude . 
i can't blame the actors , though . 
it's not their fault they had a cruddy script to work with . 
this concludes rydain's diatribe on a shameless exploitation ( and perpetuation ! ) of public fear of snakes . 
comments , flames , anyone ? 
-rydain the atomic cheese , fresh from chernobyl dairies ! 
this movie is written by the man who is deemed to be " one of the hottest writers in hollywood " . 
he wrote the groundbreaking screenplay for scream ( 8/10 ) , then added the successful i know what you did last summer ( 7 . 5/10 ) 
script to his mix , and also created the popular tv series " dawson's creek " . 
so when he asked to direct his first movie , based on his first ever script written , everyone and their grandma said " sure , go for it ! " . 
uhhm , my question is . . . did anyone bother reading this stupid script ? ? ? 
plot : ace student leigh ann watson is mistakenly caught with some cheating papers by the bitchiest teacher in the west , mrs . tingle , and set to lose her scholarship to college . 
when she and her friends visit the teacher at home in order to explain their side of the story , they end up tying her up , and slowly trying to talk some sense into the hardheaded woman . 
critique : it's not so much that this is a bad movie , than the fact that it sucks . 
this movie is chock-full of one-dimensional characters , contains no actual humor that i was able to zone in on , zero tension or thrills , plot holes the size of my big ass , lame pop tunes played to mask nothing going on in the movie , and molly ringwald , vivica a . fox and lesley anne warren tossed away in throwaway roles . 
i was primed for this film as its interesting premise had me thinking misery ( 8/10 ) and 9 to 5 , but unfortunately for williamson , he went nowhere with the bright foundation , making references to the exorcist and dr . 
zhivago , which i doubt many in his target market will appreciate . 
he also forgot about suspense , with all of his characters based on incomprehensible decisions , unbelievable motivations and simply boring us with all of their trite dialogue . 
sure , katie holmes is cute , and her co-star , marisa coughlan , did a reasonably amusing impression of the exorcist ( worth two points out of my three on ten ) , but how can we forgive the biggest one-dimensional character in any film , holmes' rival in the film , mrs . tingle's complete unprofessionalism being let go by all others around her ( are teachers allowed to behave that way nowadays ? ) and a transparent romance between holmes and some long-haired dude , hired to be the poor man's version of skeet ulrich ( who himself is a poor man's version of johnny depp ! ) . 
all in all , this movie was laughable for me , provided me with no insight into anything , demonstrated williamson's genuine lack of directorial skills alongside a juvenile script , and provided helen mirren with a great role to chew into , unfortunately forgetting to give her character any believability , humanity or capacity to comprehend . 
no hip lines , no cheap thrills , just a dull time at the movie theater . 
if you want to see a funny teenage movie , go see detroit rock city ( 8/10 ) , and thank my drunken , sorry ass in the morning . 
little known facts about this film and its stars : kevin williamson's father was a fisherman . 
kevin used his knowledge of fishing hooks and winches when creating the killer in i know what you did last summer ( 7 . 5/10 ) . 
he is also a huge fan of steven spielberg and coincidentally , so is dawson leery on tv's " dawson's creek " , a show kevin created . 
he was once an aspiring actor . 
in fact , he even landed a bit part on tv's " another world " . 
also , williamson has gone on record to say that an unsupportive english teacher who once told him that he would never amount to anything was the inspiration for mrs . tingle , which is also loosely based on the book " killing mr . griffin " by the writer of i know what you did last summer ( 7 . 5/10 ) , 
lois duncan . 
he has also come out and said that he is a gay man . 
helen mirren was born in london , england under the name ilynea lydia mironoff . 
she is married to director taylor hackford , whose works include devil's advocate ( 8/10 ) and an officer and a gentleman ( 8 . 5/10 ) . 
this film was originally titled killing mrs . 
tingle , but was changed after the columbine high school shooting incident . 
actress marisa coughlan will star in kevin williamson next tv project called " wasteland " . 
this is actor barry watson first full feature film . 
he has played the character of " seth " on tv's " malibu shores " several times . 
in a typical cinematic high school , the football jocks have sex with the girls and then dump them , but not before the boys' scores are dutifully recorded in their little black books . 
as the sexual acts take place , the other guys hang out nearby , guzzling beer and grunting like pigs . 
in the rage : carrie 2 , robert mandel's terminally bland sequel to carrie , there isn't a single original moment . 
only amy irving returns from carrie , and the talent of the rest of the sequel's cast is impossible to determine given the stupefying mediocrity of rafael moreu's script . 
as rachel , the horror story's lead , emily bergl gives one of the least scary performances in recent memory , but it isn't exactly her fault . 
the director asks for little from his actors , which is precisely what he gets . 
sporadically in this lame and lifeless movie , rachel will cause school lockers and windows to fly open , but generally she just mopes around looking like a victim . 
her fellow students delight in tormenting her . 
of course , she will get her revenge in the obligatory ending bloodbath in which she will decapitate and castrate the boys and crush the girls with burning timbers . 
as the movie marks time until its big finale , it throws in some repugnant scenes , hoping to turn audience's stomachs . 
rachel's girlfriend commits a horrible and realistic suicide after the boy who made " love " to her the night before spurns her . 
 ( he gets major points in his black book for this , but his buddies say he would have gotten more if he had had sex with her after her death . ) 
even a helpless puppy is run over , and we see his poor , little body flipping over and over under a truck . 
the teenagers in the movie are completely blas ? about it all . 
 " doesn't it offend you that some girl offed herself yesterday , " asks one of the few kids with a conscience . 
 " why ? " 
responds his nonplussed girlfriend . 
 " she wasn't anybody . " 
remarkably devoid of any energy , especially for a horror flick , the movie makes one yearn for a fast forward button on the theater's armrest . 
with material this bad , the film's only hope is to go for parody , but it isn't smart enough to realize it . 
even the mandatory epilogue is as pointless and predictable as the rest of the movie . 
the rage : carrie 2 runs 1 : 45 . 
it is rated r for graphic violence , teen alcohol abuse , sex , nudity and profanity and would be acceptable only for older teenagers . 
man , this was one wierd movie . 
similar to conspiracy theory in that it couldn't decide which genre it is . 
the first hour is your standard stock aliens clone , which nicely created an eerie atmosphere about the ship . 
the last half hour ? 
this was when the makers blew the script out the airlock and just decided - " screw it , let's just kill everybody " . 
from then on - forget sci-fi . . . this 
movie becomes 100% horror . 
what really dissappointed me about this movie was that it tried to scare you in entirely the wrong way . 
instead of using clever tricks or trying to build up to a scare - this movie just uses loud noises , sudden camera shifts and short quick bursts of gore . . . . . yawn . . . . everyone's 
seen it all before and knows when to expect it . 
the one thing that was done well was the lead up to finding out about what happened to the previous crew . 
there are skeletons lying around mangled and mashed , but what did this ? 
then finally after being painfully restored - the new crew views the video . 
the acting isn't too bad at all . . . . . considering what the actors had to work with anyway , as there is no complex or interesting dialogue to speak of . 
there was some very nice camerawork in certain sequences though , like when the hull near the bridge of the event horizon is breached and the camera pans back to follow specific objects as they bounce across the deck and are sucked out into space . 
this movie could have been so much better . 
it had a good experienced cast who deserved more to work with . 
there was just nothing new here that any of us haven't seen before in aliens or hellraiser . 
the king and i , a warner brothers animated , musical feature , recycles the classic story of a woman who challenges the heart of a king , with obvious results . 
when anna ( miranda richardson ) , a british schoolteacher , travels to saim to educate the king's ( martin vidnovic ) children , she learns that the king is treating his people unfairly , and must say something to the greedy ruler . 
meanwhile , the king's prime minister ( ian richardson ) , the stereotypical villain , plots to overthrow the king , taking the throne . 
the last , and most predictable , main subplot deals with the king's son ( allen d . hong ) , and his love for a servant , tuptim ( armi arabe ) , and how he conflicts with his feelings , and the ancient laws of saim . 
not even the lone strong character of anna can save the unbelievably horrible waste of talent , as the king and i's problems could fill the blank pages of a journal . 
i will only note the major difficulties , for it would take pages to elaborate on every detail . 
the screenplay , written by arthur rankin , peter bakalian , jacqeline feather , and david seidler , which is based upon the play written by richard rodgers and oscar hammerstein , has some of the worst dialogue written in a film within recent memory , as every time the obnoxious king would shout , " etc , etc , etc , " i would cringe . 
literally . 
speaking of cringing- i did quite a bit of this during the rather short film , which is a classic display of terrible filmmaking . 
besides the repetitive dialogue from the king , on the whole , the songs seem out of place , and unlike the lyrics , are unmagical . 
the sole song which is used cleverly is " getting to know you , " which is used as anna shows the children the great outdoors , which they have never been exposed to . 
unlike disney animated features , the king and i's songs don't add to the film , and are as uneffective as could be . 
take the following scenario as an example , as the sheer horror of the king and i's music is at its worst . 
you're being hunted by a dragon ! 
what do you do ! ? 
sing a happy song ! 
martin vidnovic voices the king without effort or emotion- you hear the saying two negatives don't make a positive ? 
believe it ! 
with the terrible dialogue that the king has , along with his awful voice track , the king is completely unbelievable , only shows mild signs of any personality , and the only thing that changes in the king is that he says " etc . , etc . , etc . , " more and more as the film progresses . 
no personality at the beginning of the movie , none at the end . 
and where does this character's personality change ? 
hey , i thought anna was supposed to change him ! 
isn't that the whole plot ? 
the prime minister's hideous sidekick ( darrell hammond ) brings his share of cringes as well - oh no ! 
another one of his teeth fell out ! 
hardy-har-har ! 
he is supposed to bring laughs for the kidlets , but even at age five i would have cringed while watching him . 
by the way this review is going , you may think the reasoning for my hate for this film is due to not liking animated films- hence why i hate this movie , because the king and i is a disgrace to animation . 
animated films , such as 1994's the lion king and 1998's the prince of egypt , are among my favorite movies of all time . 
the animation team does design their share of well animated settings , so this makes it easier to take my mind off of the annoying king , until i realize that day and night switch back in fourth within seconds . 
i have not read the play , or seen the oscar winning , 1956 film adaption , but from what i can tell , the screenplay for the 1999 version completely butchers the play , for the king and i is never magical , nor interesting . 
if it wasn't for miranda richardson , who voices anna with feeling , the king and i could earn the title , " worst movie of the decade . " 
instead , the king and i will just go down as among the year's worst . 
the bottom line- avoid this movie at all costs . 
not even young children , the target audience in this film , will enjoy it . 
not the slightest bit . 
synopsis : cro-magnon ayla loses her mother to an earthquake and escapes certain death by a lion . 
reluctantly rescued by a neanderthal clan who likes to have sex doggy-style , ayla grows up to become a blond , feminist supermodel who challenges the neanderthal patriarchy by throwing rocks and giving birth without a mate . 
comments : allow me to state for the record that i find daryl hannah an appealing presence in movies . 
she proved quite charming as the intelligent astronomer in the romantic comedy roxanne and equally creepy as pris in the sci-fi classic blade runner . 
the clan of the cave bear clearly tries to capitalize on hannah as a selling point : the poster art bears a striking closeup of hannah in tribal paint and the video box prominently features her name in lettering the same size as the title . 
not even her starring role in this turkey , unfortunately , can save it from being an unbelievable exercise in cheese . 
it's so uniquely bad ( a film dealing with prehistoric man that actually tries , and miserably fails , to be serious ) that it's oddly fascinating . 
the ridiculous attempt at drama here leaves the audience somehow transfixed , wanting to see how this dud plays out . 
the clan of the cave bear is based upon a popular novel by jean m . auel . 
to this day , the book possesses a loyal cult following . 
i remember a dear friend of mine had a dog-eared copy of the novel she had read as a child with all the so-called dirty parts blacked out with marker by her grandmother . 
i have never read this book , but i sure hope it's 10 , 000 times better than its film adaptation . 
if not , then i'm at a complete loss to explain its popularity . 
the clan of the cave bear immediately opens with a comically absurd scene . 
a young ayla , looking much like drew barrymore in e . t . , 
tramps about in the woods . 
with her cute little ponytails and fur wrapped about her , the audience's expectations of a convincing portrayal of prehistory are immediately shattered . 
what follows is a laughably choreographed sequence in which an earthquake swallows up ayla's mother ( a blonde with fur pants . . . er , 
leggings ) . 
tearful ayla looks on as the cameraman shakes the camera . . . well , 
as the earthquake slowly recedes . 
a hungry lion becomes interested in her for lunch , but the screaming six-year-old manages to outrun the king of the wild and find a safe haven . 
i won't detail the story any further ; this seems enough to illustrate my point . 
this movie is really stupid . 
it never even gives the audience a chance to suspend their disbelief . 
also , the obvious comparison between the appearance of cro-magnon man in prehistory and the rise of feminism in our century is about as subtle as burning a wonderbra in front of charlton heston . 
the movie doesn't just suggest this message ; it whacks the message into the audience with a two-by-four . 
a blond , gorgeous woman challenges the social laws of a bunch of people in gaudy brown wigs . 
she's of the " new people " ; they're of the " old people " with " the memories . " 
yep . 
we get it . 
we get it . 
the clan of the cave bear apparently received an academy award nomination for best make-up , which surprises me . 
the movie depends upon a lot of make-up obviously , but much of it is unconvincing . 
as stated before , daryl hannah is daryl hannah here ; she looks like she just stepped out of the shower all the time . 
the rest of the characters have dark make-up of some sort smeared over them to look like dirt . 
the face-painting that's occasionally seen is perhaps the only notable work here in my mind . 
this movie also suffers from its new age trappings . 
maybe the music sounded a lot more fresh or original during 1985 , but now it sounds dated and cliched , like poorly conceived elevator music . 
add to this the film's faux-mysticism , including spirit animals and dream visions , and a narrator who sounds like a psychic you'd expect to hear on a 1-900 number , and you get a movie that has serious problems being serious . 
the clan of the cave bear is rated r , though it's probably one of the most inoffensive offensive films i've seen in quite a while . 
it contains several scenes of sex sans nudity . 
the violence mostly consists of hunting scenes . 
the funniest moment of the movie occurs when a neanderthal in love with ayla attempts to rescue her from a ferocious bear . 
the bear bites his head off and the audience sees it rolling about . 
although this may sound gratuitous , i'm sure , it's so cheesy that it probably won't bother most people . 
the clan of the cave bear is a bad movie . 
however , as i wrote at the beginning of this review , it does have the distinction of originality . 
typically when i think of bottom-of-the-barrel films dealing with early man , fantasy movies involving dinosaurs ( who did not exist at the same time as man ) and raquel welch come to mind . 
the clan of the cave bear tries so hard to be serious that , though it's so bad , the audience is still interested by the unique setting and characters of the movie ( which is why i awarded this turkey two stars ) . 
i have to think that fans of the book would be disappointed with this film version ; however , i'm only basing this observation on the fact that the book is almost invariably better than the movie . 
i shudder to think that it could be otherwise . . . 
salaries of hollywood top actors are getting obscenely large these days and many find this to be the main reason for skyrocketing movie budgets . 
actors who demand such salaries might be greedy , but in some instances they are quite justified , because many films would never be watched or even made without their participation . 
proof for that can be found even in the realm of low-budget movies , and one fine example is breakaway , 1995 thriller directed by sean dash and starring ( in ) famous figure skater tonya harding . 
face of tonya harding is most prominently featured on movie's poster , but the main star of the film is terri thompson who plays myra , attractive woman who works as a courier for gangster . 
one day she decides to retire , but her employers are anything but enthusiastic about that . 
realising that her life suddenly became worthless , myra starts running for her life , followed by professional assassins . 
terri thompson being the actual star of the film instead of tonya harding becomes quite understandable after the scenes that feature former figure skater . 
although tonya harding displays convincing martial arts abilities , her acting leaves much to be desired . 
on the other hand , her disappointing efforts are hardly out of place in the film that lacks originality , believable characters and situations and actually represents anything that gave b-films a bad name . 
martin sheen's brother joe estevez , whose character looks like he had entered from another movies' set , is the only bright spot of breakaway . 
unfortunately , he appears in this film too little too late to prevent viewers from realising why tonya harding's silver screen debut proved to be her last film . 
movies like six days , seven nights make me mad because talented people like harrison ford , anne heche , and ivan reitman put a lot of hard work in to a script worth about ten cents . ? 
the script was written by michael browning , and he decided that , instead of thinking up new ideas , he'd rehash a lot of cliches , omit even the slightest bit of character development , and then throw in drug-dealing pirates to provide for a few high-level action sequences and explosions . ? 
there are good scripts out there that high-profile actors can make ( see the truman show , for instance ) . ? 
six days , seven nights is simply a waste . 
let's see . 
 . 
 . 
we have to get harrison ford and anne heche alone on an island . ? 
so , how do we do that ? ? 
well , we'll make her a feisty magazine editor , and we'll make him a crusty old pilot . ? 
but wait , she has to have a fianc ? e ; that can be david schwimmer . ? 
but wait , if she has a fianc ? e , how will she and harrison ford crash on the island alone ? ? 
i know ! ? 
they'll get to their vacation spot , and then she'll get called back ! ? 
yessssss ! ? 
so , they'll crash on the island , and that will be funny for about five minutes . ? 
shucks . 
oh , i've got it ! ? 
we'll throw in a distracting subplot in which her fianc ? e has sex with a really attractive woman who acts like a bimbo , and then he can feel guilty . ? 
then , when anne heche kisses harrison ford ( they have to kiss , because otherwise nobody will want to see the movie ) , it will be a vindicated action , because her fianc ? e will already have cheated on her ! ? 
then , for no obvious reason , they'll accidentally run into pirates who try to kill them . ? 
oh , yes ! ? 
i feel so good about this story . ? 
instead of using characterization to propel the events , it will be completely random , and yet totally predictable ! ? 
imagine that . 
don't get me wrong -- six days , seven nights is not a boring picture ; ford and heche both do a great job . ? 
the sparks fly between them , and so most of browning's inane dialogue is drowned out by the actors' sheer force of talent . 
 ? almost every scene between them has energy that the performers bring to the screen , and i found myself laughing pretty hard . ? 
schwimmer is also funny , and manages to milk all of his scenes for whatever he can get . ? 
and reitman , who has made some good films , at least tries to make things exciting . ? 
even though the pirate subplot is profoundly dumb , i was prepared to be pleasantly sidetracked by the action sequences . 
it's just when i start to think about the story that my contempt for this film surfaces . ? 
the picture feels like it's been hacked to pieces -- i wouldn't be surprised if five or six inept subplots have been edited out completely . ? 
the ones that are here are as bad as they come ( i think i let out a very audible groan when they get the first glimpse of the pirate ships ) , and i'd just like to shake the producers by the shoulders and scream , " why did you pick this awful script ! ? " ? 
the film is outright stupid , but some of the elements are subtly horrifying . ? 
for instance , take the subplot in which the schwimmer character has sex with the bimbo , and then feels really guilty . ? 
this is a serious problem in real life , but six days , seven nights reduces any chance of complexity to a weak plot device : ? his actions are what makes it okay for heche to kiss ford . ? 
in a script that lacks even a glimpse of intelligent subtlety , i find it odd that such a strangely insulting device ended up in the story . 
this is summer movie season , but that doesn't mean our movies have to be dumb . ? 
1998 so far has been one of the worst years in recent memory for summer blockbusters . ? 
when i was in line for six days , seven nights , i heard the woman in front of me ask for " two tickets to that new harrison ford movie . " 
 ? why didn't she know the name of the film ? ? 
i suppose she just didn't care . 
 ? what bothers me even more is that the people who make these big-budget pictures don't realize that their films are becoming parodies of themselves . ? 
good actors should sign to good scripts , and if hollywood insists on making flicks to rake in cash , they least they could do is assume that we'd like to spend our money on a story worth more than ten cents . 
if anything , " stigmata " should be taken as a warning against releasing similarly-themed films relatively close to one another . 
of the four supernatural horror flicks released this year , it is clearly the worst . 
i suppose i should have seen this coming . 
after all , " blair witch " thoroughly creeped me out , " sixth sense " was mildly spooky , and then " stir of echoes " had its moments , but wasn't anything i'd lose sleep over . 
clearly , the quality of the horror this summer has slowly been dropping . 
is it then any surprise that " stigmata " is the dullest , most horribly executed piece of mtv-influenced tripe i have seen in a long while ? 
no , not really . 
patricia arquette plays frankie page , a hairdresser from pittsburgh who receives a rosary as a gift from her globe-trotting mother . 
as it turns out , the rosary belonged to a recently-deceased brazilian priest . 
the priest's church had been under investigation by father andrew kiernan ( gabriel byrne ) because of the mysterious appearance of a bleeding statue . 
father kiernan is an investigator who has made a career out of disproving supposed religious signs , but this time he believes there is something to the bleeding statue . 
his investigation is soon called off , however , when the frankie starts exhibiting signs of the stigmata , in which a person is inflicted with wounds like that of jesus christ . 
father kiernan is initially skeptical of frankie' s story , considering she's an atheist , but once he witnesses the stigmata attacks himself , he dedicates himself to finding out what is going on . 
he eventually begins to suspect that his boss , cardinal houseman ( jonathan pryce ) , is concealing something that could bring down the catholic church . 
as it turns out , the dead priest had been working on the translation of a " fifth gospel " before they were excommunicated . 
the new rupert wainwright music video . 
 . 
 . 
i mean film " stigmata " is the sort of film that starts off ok and only gets worse . 
indeed , it would have been good if it were a music video , because it's only interesting for about five minutes . 
i'm not sure what wainwright is trying to prove with his endless parade of slow-motion , double-exposure , and extreme close-ups ( whoaaaaaa ! ! ! ! ) , other than the fact that he has the most swelled head of any director in hollywood and , yes , he has been to film school . 
his camera trickery is interesting for a little while , but eventually , it becomes headache-inducing . 
what this film needed is a second audio track to be played over the dialogue ( such as it is ) , with wainwright screaming at the audience , " see ? 
look at what i can do ! 
i'm an ex-cellent dir-ect-or . " 
maybe then he'd explain why he decided to start half of his scenes with slow-motion shots of water dripping in reverse , or why he included random superfluous shots as that of an egg frying ( ooh , scary ! ) . 
if there was some underlying meaning behind all this camera trickery , i didn't see it . 
just when you thought it was safe to get involved in the story , here comes a double-exposure shot of two patricia arquettes collapsing into bed for no reason whatsoever . 
arrrrrrrghhhh . 
 . 
 . 
then again , the superfluous camera trickery wouldn't bother me if " stigmata " had a story or characters that were remotely engaging . 
though wainwright's vanity certainly doesn't help , he does seem to have been given a nearly unworkable script . 
where are plot continuity and character development when you need them ? 
case in point : frankie page is the character that ( i assume ) we are supposed to identify and sympathize with , but we aren't given any back story on her character , or any reason to like her . 
the extent of her character development seems to be that she is a hard-working hairdresser ( who can somehow afford a cavernous apartment on the top floor of her building ) and she's kind of cute , so let's start the bleeding ! 
the fact that she's clearly not the brightest bulb in the drawer doesn't help , either . 
according to frankie page , what is the first thing to do after receiving mysterious wounds on your wrists and back ? 
go clubbing ! 
sure , that makes sense . 
arquette , byrne , and pryce give it the old college try , but their characters are so one-dimensional that they just appear to be sleepwalking . 
scenes between arquette and byrne that were probably supposed to be sexually charged fall almost embarrassingly flat , because the setup of the romantic subplot is so clumsily handled that it almost reaches the point of becoming laughable . 
even though frankie page's life is falling apart before her very eyes , she still finds the time to hit on a priest who wanders in to her hair salon . 
even more curiously , he seems to be interested in her advances . 
father andrew's religious doubt pops up so suddenly that it seems more silly than dramatic . 
as for pryce , he may as well wear a curled mustache and cackle , " i'll get you , my pretty , " for all the depth his cardinal houseman is afforded . 
trust me , i'm not revealing anything by telling you pryce turns out to be a villain . 
what's worse , after being faced with dull characters and the prospect of having annoying camera tricks and loud music jammed down our throats , we now have to contend with a story that starts off in one direction , veers off in another , then another , and ends up being totally incomprehensible . 
first of all , the film doesn't even bother to explain what should be very simple plot details . how does frankie get the stigmata merely by touching a rosary ? 
how come an atheist like her was chosen , since father andrew mentions that only very devout believers have ever received stigmata ? 
actually , i'm not sure what frankie was posessed by . 
supposedly , stigmata occurs when one is posessed by the holy spirit , but the film later has her being posessed by the dead priest , and later by some evil spirit ( i think ) . 
which one is it ? 
the answer to this question , of course , is very simple : the possessing entity in each scene is determined by whichever effects and flashy camera work mr . wainwright wants to use this time . 
furthermore , the ending is a ridiculously neat little wrap-up , and the filmmakers compound this problem by ultimately turning the film into a diatribe against the catholic church . 
if you do any research at all about the gospel of st . thomas , you'll find that it is not being suppressed by the church ( as the film seems to claim ) , but that it is readily available at your local library . 
there's nothing the catholics need to worry about , though . 
 " stigmata's " religion is so off-base that it can't be confused for anything remotely resembling the real catholic church . 
if they wanted to portray catholic priests as mobsters , they should have gone all-out and equipped them with sharkskin suits and tommy guns , which would have been far more interesting . 
i'm not catholic ; in fact , i don 't care much for the catholic church , but its cartoonish misrepresentation in this film should not be considered realistic by any means . 
it's rare to see a film that fails on as many levels as " stigmata " does . 
it' s not thought-provoking , though it would like to be , and it is definitely not scary , though it pretends to be . 
i'm not sure why they tried to pass this off as a horror film , because there is absolutely nothing scary about the story . 
maybe it's an attempt to cover up the fact that none of the scenes have any dramatic weight whatsoever . 
the initial shock of seeing arquette covered with blood is dulled by the fact that it happens over , and over , and over . 
like so many films of the mtv generation , this one suffers from overkill . 
so much is overdone in " stigmata , " that it eventually has no effect on the audience , leaving us to pick out the film's ( many ) flaws . 
i'm also still trying to figure out why the quotation they take from the gospel of st . thomas is so earth-shattering . 
when we finally hear it , the saying sounds like something every five-year-old learns on their first day of sunday school , which means that for all its flash , the whole film is really much ado about nothing . 
the dog days of summer usually produce one monstrous dog , and " stigmata " is it . 
john boorman's " zardoz " is a goofy cinematic debacle so fundamentally misconceived and laughably executed that it takes on a bizarre enjoyment quality all its own . 
not since the rampant bumblings of one edward d . wood jr . has a movie been so silly and so serious at the same time . 
of course , wood's career can be explained by two things : he had no money and he had no talent . 
boorman , on the other hand , cannot court such excuses to explain " zardoz " ( or his follow-up film , the equally awful " exorcist ii : the heretic " ) . 
boorman obviously had a sizable budget , a matinee idol movie star ( sean connery ) in the lead role , and although you wouldn't know it from this film , boorman does indeed have talent . 
this is the man who made the slick modern masterpiece " deliverance " ( 1972 ) , as well as the autobiographical world war ii drama " hope and glory " ( 1987 ) , the slightly over-conceived arthurian epic " excalibur " ( 1981 ) and the father-son jungle adventure " the emerald forest " ( 1985 ) . 
his films all show that boorman is never lacking in imagination , but sometimes that comes at the cost of coherence and taste . 
if boorman is anything , he's ambitious , and when he succeeds , it's in grand fashion . 
unfortunately , the bigger they are , the harder they fall , and when boorman falls , the resounding impact can be heard for miles around . 
 " zardoz " is meant to takes its place among the grandest of mystical movies , an obsession of boorman's . 
his screenplay tries to elicit the same mythological connotations of the arthurian legends or even " the wizard of oz , " a book which figures into the movie's plot . 
but , despite all this reaching , the resulting movie is more unintentionally funny than intentionally enigmatical or compelling . 
the events take place in the distant year 2293 , but there is little of the typical futuristic movie-ness to be found . 
in fact , things seems to have moved backwards , with people riding horses , shooting old-style guns , and living in large victorian mansions . 
it's more middle ages than space age . 
the world of " zardoz " is divided into two distinct hemispheres : the outlands , where all the poor , pathetic people live , and the vortex , where a select group of wealthy intellectuals live in comfort and everlasting life . 
these immortals never grow old , they never engage in sexual activity , they possess psychological powers , and they live in a sort of quasi-utopian marxist society where everyone is equal , and everyone contributes equally to the society . 
however , if one breaks the rules , that person is punished by being aged so many years . 
if someone breaks the rules enough , he or she is aged to the point of senility , and imprisoned to an eternal existence in a geriatric home with others aged criminals . 
one of the immortals , arthur frayn ( niall buggy ) , a squirmy man with a mustache and goatee tattooed on his face , is charged with keeping order in the outlands and forcing the residents to farm so the immortals can be fed . 
like " the wizard of oz , " he adopts a god-like status among the people by flying in to their part of the world in a giant stone carved like a menacing head . 
 ( this flying head is one of the movie's opening images , and it's a dead giveaway of the lunacy to come . ) 
calling himself zardoz , frayn gathers a bunch of outlanders and makes them into a group called the exterminators , whose purpose is to kill most of the other outlanders so they can't procreate and take up more resources . 
from inside his giant , stone head , zardoz bellows seriously laugh-inducting statements like , " the gun is good . 
the penis is evil . " 
that line alone is worth the movie's cult following . 
one day , an exterminator named zed ( sean connery ) , sneaks into zardoz's flying stone , pushes frayn out , and goes back to the vortex . 
once there , the immortals label him a " brutal " and study him like a lab rat , taking great , perverse care in exploring his sexuality , which is a mystery to them . 
they seem especially interested in his ability to gain an erection , and there is one downright hilarious sequence where a bunch of scantily-clad female scientists show zed erotic footage on a video screen in an attempt to determine what gets him worked up . 
i say " hilarious " because that is exactly what " zardoz " is . 
it is obvious that boorman did not intend it to be so ; he made this film with the straightest of faces , although i have a hard time believing that as production moved forward , he didn't get even the slightest inkling of how patently ridiculous it was becoming . 
just looking at connery is enough to give one the giggles - he spends most of the film running around in a red loin cloth that resembles a diaper , a mane of hair braided halfway down his back , a wyatt earp-style handlebar mustache , and a pair of thigh-high patent leather boots that would look more appropriate on a cheap hollywood hooker . 
boorman made the film right after the critical and financial success of " deliverance , " which is the only reason i can imagine a studio would green-light this effort . 
he attracted some rich talent on both sides of the camera , including cinematographer geoffrey unsworth ( " 2001 " ) , whose striking visuals are about the only good thing in " zardoz " besides the inadvertent humor . 
sean connery had made his last james bond film in 1971 , and perhaps he was looking for a change in pace . 
he got exactly that in " zardoz , " and it's a wonder it didn't end his career . 
i'm sure boorman intended for this movie to make some grand statements . 
is it a treatise about the infallibility of eternal life ? 
is it a condemnation of those who consider growing old to be a bad thing ? 
or is it a social statement , something about the inherent negativity of class distinctions and the violence it creates ? 
karl marx might like it if he were more like timothy leary . 
come to think of it , maybe boorman made it as an extended lsd trip . 
people high on illicit substances are the only ones i can imagine enjoying this asinine silliness as anything more than a completely unintentional comedy . 
the kids in the hall are an acquired taste . 
it took at least a season of watching their show on hbo before i became a believer . 
maybe after watching a half dozen kids in the hall movies , they would grow into the big screen . 
my recommendation is that , unless you are a big fan of the kids , skip the film . 
as it is , their first--and most likely only--attempt at a full length film lacks the qualities that made their comedy work on tv . 
a big-budget and glossy production can not make up for a lack of spontaneity that permeates their tv show . 
the kids go through the motions , but you get the feeling that they arent really having fun doing so . 
and this makes it more difficult for the audience to enjoy their antics . 
brain candy is a bunch of skits tied together by the story of a pharmaceutical company that develops a new drug to cure depression . 
in typical sketch-comedy tradition , each actor plays several roles . 
doctor cooper ( kevin mcdonald ) and his team create the drug . 
then , under pressure from don roritor ( mark mckinney ) , founder and president of roritor pharmaceuticals , dr . cooper releases the drug into the marketplace . 
the ensuing distribution of the new happy pill throughout the populace drives the rest of the film . 
at about 90 minutes , brain candy still seems long . 
the best thing about sketch comedy--and the kids are no exception--is the ability to quickly deliver the laughs , then go on to another quick skit . 
but with the additional set-up necessary in telling a longer , coherent story , the laughs just dont come fast enough . 
strangely , the show is even more tame than it was when on cable tv . 
the movie makes several attempts at risqueness--mostly by pointing up the gayness of one of scott thompsons characters--but they seem almost forced ; as if they have to live up to a pg rating . 
one of the best bits , though , does make use of thompsons naked buttocks ; we see him charging into battle--going to have sex with some guys taking a shower . 
in the classic of this genre , monty python pulled off this delicate balancing act between plot advancement and punchline delivery for most of the holy grail . 
the kids , unfortunately , are not up to the task . 
there are some amusing moments , to be sure , but not enough to make the experience an enjoyable one . 
there was a time when john carpenter was a great horror director . 
of course , his best film was 1978's masterpiece , " halloween , " but he also made 1980's " the fog , " and 1987's underrated , " prince of darkness . " 
heck , he even made a good film in 1995 , with " in the mouth of madness . " 
but something terribly wrong happened to him in 1992 , with the terrible comedy , " memoirs of an invisible man . " 
somehow , carpenter has lost his touch , with junk like his failed 1995 remake of , " village of the damned , " to his uninspired 1996 sequel , " escape from l . a . " those movies , however , look like cinematic works of art compared to his latest film , " john carpenter's vampires . " 
if i was him , i definately wouldn't want to put my own name in the title . 
it is a sad state of affairs when carpenter can make something as misguided and flatly written and filmed as , " vampires . " 
the story is simple . 
jack crow ( james woods ) is a vampire hunter who , along with one of his partners , montoya ( daniel baldwin ) , and a prostitute , katrina ( sheryl lee ) , survives an attack from the master vampire , valek ( thomas ian griffith ) . 
since katrina was previously bitten by him , crow takes her along because anyone who is bitten by valek becomes telepathically linked to him until they themselves turn into vampires a couple days later , and crow is hoping to find him with the help of her . 
it seems valek's mission is to steal a black , wooden cross from a roman catholic church that will enable him to become so powerful that sunlight will not destroy him . 
my question is : how many time have we seen this same story played out ? 
well , the answer is just about as many times as a better version of the story has been made . 
 " john carpenter's vampires , " sadly enough , is one of the most unscary horror films i've ever seen . 
in fact , there isn't even one suspenseful moment in the whole 105-minute running time . 
the non-stop vampire attack sequences are stylelessly filmed , without any interesting camera work , which is usually a trademark of carpenter's . 
and then we come to the screenplay , which , as far as i can tell , is nearly non-existent . 
there is no story development , and there isn't even an attempt to flesh out the characters . 
james woods can be a good actor , but he has nothing to do here but to say a couple of " pseudo " -clever lines of dialogue . 
daniel baldwin has some potential , but his character comes off as being very dense . 
and sheryl lee ( faring much better as laura palmer in " twin peaks " ) , like all of the female characters , plays an offensive stereotypical whore . 
there is not an ounce of intelligence , or excitement in , " john carpenter's vamires , " which is very disheartening coming from an ex-fan of carpenter's . 
he has said that he turned down directing , " halloween : h20 , " because he couldn't work up any excitement for it . 
and yet , when asked about a " vampires " sequel , he said he would be happy to do it . 
i think that's a definite sign that carpenter has finally lost any trace of his lasting talent , not to mention a significant number of iq points . 
two party guys bob their heads to haddaway's dance hit " what is love ? " 
while getting themselves into trouble in nightclub after nightclub . 
it's barely enough to sustain a three-minute _saturday_night_live_ skit , but _snl_ producer lorne michaels , _clueless_ creator amy heckerling , and paramount pictures saw something in the late night television institution's recurring " roxbury guys " sketch that would presumably make a good feature . 
emphasis on the word " presumably . " 
_a_night_at_the_roxbury_ takes an already-thin concept and tediously stretches it far beyond the breaking point--and that of viewers' patience levels . 
the first five minutes or so of _roxbury_ play very much like one of the original " roxbury guys " skits . 
with " what is love ? " 
blaring on the soundtrack , the brotherly duo of doug and steve butabi ( chris kattan and will ferrell ) bob their heads , scope out " hotties " at clubs , and then bump a select few with violent pelvic thrusts . 
there is one crucial difference , however--these guys speak . 
that little fact has been used as justification for the film's existence , that the butabis' newfound capacity for speech would open up a whole new set of doors for the characters . 
the doors opened by director john fortenberry and screenwriters steve koren , ferrell , and kattan are new , that's for sure , but they all lead to comic dead ends . 
there is no story per se , only a loosely structured and linked series of subplots . 
the brothers literally run into ( or , rather , get run into , as in by car ) richard grieco of _21_jump_street_ fame , and through him they gain entrance into the exclusive roxbury club . 
there , they meet a hotshot club owner ( chazz palminteri , conspicuously uncredited--can you blame him ? ) , who takes an interest in an idea of theirs . 
meanwhile , the bros' overbearing father ( dan hedaya ) wants them to stop clubbing . 
when doug refuses and the dimwitted steve obeys his father , a rift is created between the two . 
the narrative messiness of _roxbury_ would have been forgivable if all that went on were the slightest bit funny , but virtually none of it is . 
the assembled press audience mostly sat stonily silent throughout the entire film , with the one big exception being a big laugh near the end . 
alas , the joke--a rather lazy takeoff on _jerry_maguire_--will only strike a chord with people who have seen that film . 
granted , a lot of people _have_ seen _jerry_maguire_ , but the fact that the film's best joke is completely dependent on one's familiarity with another film says a lot about _roxbury_'s lack of inspiration . 
that lack of inspiration can be traced back to the insipid characters themselves . 
like too many of the skits on the current incarnation of _saturday_night_live_ , " the roxbury guys " is a one-joke sketch that never once suggests that the characters have enough comic life in them to survive outside of the sketch context . 
after watching one of the " roxbury " skits on snl , this is what you come away with from the characters : they bob their heads to " what is love ? " , 
bump unsuspecting women , and . . . that's all . 
after watching _a_night_at_the_roxbury_ , you'll be left with exactly the same . 
